                   Code of Conduct on Images and Messages
                                                           2006

Preface
This Code of Conduct on Images and Messages has been written by NGOs working in the areas of emergency relief,
long term development and development education.
The purpose of this Code of Conduct is to provide a framework on which organisations can draw when designing and
implementing their public communications strategy. The Code offers a set of guiding principles that can assist
practitioners in their efforts to communicate their organisation’s programmes and values in a coherent and balanced
way.

Signatories to this Code are acutely aware of the many challenges and difficulties entailed in conveying the scandal and
injustice of poverty while striving to meet the ideals of the Code. It is a reality of our world today that many of the images
of extreme poverty and humanitarian distress are negative and cannot be ignored. To ignore them would run counter to
the spirit of this Code which is to portray the reality of the lives of people with sensitivity and respect for their dignity.

Images and messages should seek to represent a complete picture of both internal and external assistance and the
partnership that often results between local and international NGOs.

The values of human dignity, respect and truthfulness as outlined in the Code, must underlie all communications. The
signatories to this Code are committed to these principles, and will translate them into internal policies and procedures.
They are also committed to working constructively with others whose work involves communicating on issues of global
poverty, to explore ways of reflecting these principles in other fields of communications.

By signing and promoting this Code, NGOs will continue to keep the development agenda very much in the public eye
and to look beyond the sound bite or single image to reflect the values espoused in this Code.


                           Code of Conduct on Images and Messages
a. Guiding Principles
Choices of images and messages will be made based on the paramount principles of:

    • Respect for the dignity of the people concerned;
    • Belief in the equality of all people;
    • Acceptance of the need to promote fairness, solidarity and justice.

Accordingly in all our communications and where practical and reasonable within the need to reflect reality, we strive to:
    • Choose images and related messages based on values of respect equality, solidarity and justice;
    •    Truthfully represent any image or depicted situation both in its immediate and in its wider context so as to
         improve public understanding of the realities and complexities of development;
    •    Avoid images and messages that potentially stereotype, sensationalise or discriminate against people,
         situations or places;
   •   Use images, messages and case studies with the full understanding, participation and permission (or subjects’
       parents/guardian) of the subjects;
   •   Ensure those whose situation is being represented have the opportunity to communicate their stories
       themselves;
   •   Establish and record whether the subjects wish to be named or identifiable and always act accordingly;
   •   Conform to the highest standards in relation to human rights and protection of the vulnerable people.
   •   Conform to the highest standards in relation to children's rights according to the Convention on the Rights of the
       Child (CRC); as children are the subjects most frequently portrayed



b. Declaration of Commitment
       As signatories to this Code, we confirm that our commitment to best practice in communications affects the
       entirety of our organisation.

       By signing the Code, we commit to putting in place meaningful mechanisms to ensure that the Code’s principles
       are implemented throughout all activities of our organisation.

       Our responsibilities as a signatory to this Code lead us to be accountable in our public communications as
       follows:

       1. We will make the existence of the Code known to the public and all our partners and will provide a
          feedback mechanism whereby anyone can comment on the fulfilment of the Code and where any member
          of the public will have a ‘right to challenge’ our application of the Code.

       2. We will communicate our commitment to best practice in the communication of images and messages in all
          our public policy statements by placing the following statement on our relevant public communications
          (annual reports, website, policy statements, governance documents, leaflets and communication materials
          etc):

                “<Named Organisation> has signed the code of conduct on images and messages
                (www.namedorganisation.org/code) please send your feedback to code@namedorganisation.org”

       3. We commit to assess our public communications on an annual basis according to the guiding principles.

       4. We will include reference to adherence to the Code in the guiding principles of our organisation and ensure
          that the top management take the responsibility of implementing and adhering to the code

       5. We will ensure that all relevant suppliers, contractors and media will adhere to the Code when working with
          our organisation.

       6. We commit to training our staff on the use of images and messages.

       7. We agree to meet on an annual basis and share our experience of using and implementing the Code with
          other signatory organisations



       Signature:                                    Organisation:                                 Date:




                                                                                                                       2
