The Community of Interbeing UK



Annual Report and Financial Statements

Year Ended 31 December 2024




Registered Charity
No 1096680

Company Registration
No 04623280
2   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




About the Community of Interbeing UK
The Community of Interbeing UK is the network of people in the United Kingdom who practise
Buddhism according to the teachings of Zen master Thich Nhat Hanh (Thây -pronounced 'tie' - as
we call him, meaning teacher in Vietnamese). The UK Community of Interbeing is part of the wider
international Sangha of many thousands of practitioners worldwide, all of whom follow Thây's
mindfulness practice and teachings.

Mindfulness is the energy of being aware and awake to the present moment. It is the continuous
practice of touching life deeply in every moment of daily life. To be mindful is to be truly alive,
present and at one with those around us and with what we are doing. We bring our body and
mind into harmony while we wash the dishes, drive the car or take our morning shower, learning
to do them with mindfulness, with an awareness that we are doing them. We practise mindfulness
throughout every moment of the day and not just during meditation.

Practising mindfulness cultivates understanding, love, compassion, and joy. This practice helps us
to take care of and transform suffering in our lives and in our society.

In practising together as a group, our practice of mindfulness becomes more joyful, relaxed and
steady. We support each other along the path of practice. With the support of the community, we
can practise to cultivate peace and joy within and around us, as a gift for all of those whom we
love and care for. We can cultivate our solidity and freedom - solid in our deepest aspiration and
free from our fears, misunderstandings, and our suffering.

In addition to providing national retreats and training, the Community of Interbeing supports one
hundred and sixteen registered Sangha groups around the UK, sells books and other media, and
provides a weekly update for members called Dharmabites, plus a monthly e-News called Here &
Now, as well as distributing the international Mindfulness Bell magazine. The Mindfulness Bell can
also be accessed on-line and ordered via the website.

We plan to open our practice centre Being Peace in early 2026.

Through our programmes of education and practice the Community of Interbeing endeavours to
encourage more people to practise mindful living.
                                                     The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   3




2024 Annual Review
In this annual review we set out our charitable aims, and for each aspect of our activities, the actions taken to
implement them in this year as well as our future plans.

Charitable aims
The Objectives of the Community of Interbeing UK are:

    a)   To advance, support and encourage the study and practice of Buddhism and mindful living in accordance with
         the teachings of meditation master Thich Nhat Hanh, in the UK and overseas, in keeping with the Five
         Mindfulness Trainings.

    b) To assist and encourage the formation and activities of regional and local groups having this common
       purpose.

National practice and training
What we do

        Organise retreats for adults, families and young people.
        Provide an in-depth training programme on the core teachings
        We run 3 interlinked courses for groups. Course 1 is The Art of Zen or Mindfulness for Neurodiversity,
         Course 2 is entitled Looking Deeply and course 3 Living Mindfully.
        Offer and share our practice online in a variety of formats.

How what we do delivers public benefit

The principal benefit comprises the provision of opportunities for members of the public (including Buddhists and
those interested in Buddhism) to learn more about mindfulness and Buddhism. We provide instruction from beginner
to advanced levels, enabling people to deepen their knowledge and experience. We offer retreats for both individuals
and groups, to enable them to develop their meditation experience and increase their understanding of the mindful
way of life in the Plum Village tradition of Thich Nhat Hanh.

Our events are advertised publicly on our website, social media channels (e.g. PlumVillageUK Facebook&Instagram
page) as well as our weekly Dharmabites offerings for members and monthly newsletter (which anyone can sign up
to). We offer a warm welcome to anyone who wishes to attend. We make a charge to recover the cost of running our
retreats and training programmes with a lower rate applying to those in special circumstances. We also endeavour to
raise funds to offer bursaries towards the cost of some of the events.

Action taken in 2024

Across the broad community in the UK, we supported a wide range of activities which included:

Regular Practice:

    ●    Sunday Evening Sangha (every Sunday, online): Our Sunday Sangha welcomes friends, newcomers and
         experienced practitioners alike, from 5pm to 6pm UK time every Sunday.

    ●    Engaged Practice for Peace (twice a month throughout the year, online). Many people are deeply affected
         by the wars and conflicts around the world, causing great suffering. We meet twice a month online for a
         guided meditation, a reading, and the precious opportunity to connect with the wider Sangha, to listen
         deeply to each other, to look deeply, and to collectively nourish our mindfulness.
4   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




         Morning Meditations (every weekday throughout the year, online): A group of regular volunteers including
          Dharma Teachers and members of the Order of Interbeing, offer morning meditations every weekday. We
          practice with the Love Meditation twice each week, generating the energies of Love and Compassion in the
          world. We also practice regularly with other meditations drawn from the book, ‘The Blooming of a Lotus’.

         Together In Peace (Monday - Sunday, throughout the year, online): Coming together to practice guided
          meditation in order to generate the energy of compassion; for ourselves, each other, and all those suffering
          from the effects of war and climate change.

         Being Peace Practice Centre Sangha Meetings (bi-monthly from 11 February, online): The bi-monthly Being
          Peace Sangha meetings include a practice offered by UK Dharma Teachers, updates on how we are
          progressing with the project, and an opportunity to share questions and thoughts with the centre project
          team.

         Being Peace Briefing Sessions (18, 21, 23 May, online): Sangha Briefing Sessions offer the opportunity for
          people in our community to have a direct conversation with the team working to manifest the new Plum
          Village practice centre here in the UK.

         Earth Care Sangha (monthly, starting 16th September): The Earth Care Sangha is a supportive space for all
          people to come together to practise mindfulness in the midst of the climate and nature crises.

         White Awareness Sangha (bi-monthly, online): An open and compassionate space for ‘white-bodied’ sangha
          practitioners to engage the practice of mindfulness to transform racism in ourselves and in the world.


Retreats:

     ●    Discourse on the Five Ways of Putting an End to Anger - Dharma Training Programme (9-11 February,
          Purley Chase) Led by UK Dharma Teachers Mhairi (Vari) McLuskie and Theresa Payne, retreat explored the
          wisdom and related teachings of the discourse on The 5 Ways of Putting an End to Anger, to understand how
          to cultivate true wisdom in our lives for ourselves, for others and for the earth.

     ●    Mindful Writing Retreat (26-28 April, Ilkley) A transformative weekend of self-discovery and creative
          exploration, facilitated by Lauri Bower and Teri West.

     ●    Discourse on the Better Way to Live Alone - Dharma Training Programme (24-27 May, Ilkley): The retreat
          will be led by UK Dharma teachers Murray Corke and Angie Searle, exploring the wisdom and related
          teachings of the discourse on The Better Way to Live Alone.

     ●    In Love with the Earth Retreat (24 - 27 May, Scotland): This long weekend retreat, led by Dharma Teacher
          Susanne Olbrich, was an opportunity to explore and deepen our connection with the Earth.

     ●    Peace is Every Step, Mindfulness Retreat with Dene Donalds (10-13 October, Wiston Lodge): Together we
          will be seeking positive ways of living in these times of political uncertainty, war and upheaval

     ●    Love is the Way, Dharma Training Programme in Scotland (17-20 October, Kilgraston, Scotland): Facilitated
          by UK Dharma teachers Mhairi (Vari) McLuskie and Susanne Olbrich, this retreat was an opportunity to
          deeply explore the teachings on love offered by Thich Nhat Hanh. What can be more important in this time of
          change than cultivating love and understanding for ourselves, our loved ones, the Earth and all beings?

     ●    The Diamond that Cuts through Illusion, Dharma Training Programme (24-28 October, Sidcot): An in depth
          retreat exploring the Diamond Sutra, led by UK Lay Dharma teachers Dene Donalds and Teri West, and
          aspirant Dharma teachers Rehena Harilall and Anthony Leete

     ●    Simply Singing (25-28 November, Purley Chase): A residential retreat combining mindfulness practice,
          singing with others and enjoying ourselves.
                                                     The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   5




Events:

         Mindful Morning (1st January, online): We celebrated being together as a national sangha, online, for a New
          Year’s Day mindful morning – the first of the new year. We offered guided meditation, a New Year’s Dharma
          Talk from Plum Village and the opportunity to share our individual hopes and aspirations for the year ahead.

    ●     My Life is My Teaching - Honouring our Ancestor Thich Nhat Hanh (21 January, online): January 2024
          marked two years since our beloved Thay’s (Thich Nhat Hanh’s) passing. We were warmly invited to join Plum
          Village Monastery online for a special two-year anniversary memorial.

    ●     Peace is Every Step: Silent Walking Meditation for Peace (21 January, London): A Multi - Faith Peace Walk in
          London for non-violence, reconciliation and peace, in recognition of our common humanity. Organised
          together with Quakers in Britain.

         Stories & Universal Teachings - Mindful Morning (5 February, online): This month we welcomed back Rev.
          Colin Hodgetts for an exploration of teaching stories within Christian/Jewish, Buddhist and Islamic traditions;
          their similarities and their differences, each having a universal appeal that can be shared across all cultural
          and societal boundaries.

         Community - Mindful Morning (3 March, online): we hosted a panel including members of the Being Peace
          Practice Centre project steering group, on how restoring a sense of community in individuals and society is
          essential in developing mental and spiritual wellbeing and effecting change in the collective consciousness.
          The panel included Miles Dunmore, Tamsin Hong, Teri West and Nick Kenrick.

         Creativity Curiosity and Self-Care - Mindful Morning (7 April, online): The Mindful Morning earlier this
          month aimed to open up a wider perception of ‘creativity’ to include how developing this quality of mind is
          essential in carrying out even mundane tasks successfully or when working in fields other than the ‘arts’. You
          may wish to watch the recording from session hosted by Lauri Bower and Clare Carlile speaking about
          embracing our creativity in a mindful way.

    ●     Reverence for Life: Multi-Faith Event with Meditation, Reflection and Music (28 April, online): We come
          together to reflect how the ethics of our faiths support our engaged action and dedication to nonviolence,
          reconciliation, justice and peace.This Multi-faith dialogue with luminaries from Islam, Judaism, Christianity
          and Buddhism offers us an opportunity to explore how our practices and scriptures provide us with clarity,
          courage and resolve to engage in compassionate action for ceasefire, justice and peace for Palestine, Sudan,
          Ukraine, Syria, Myanmar, Israel, Russia and the 30 more countries currently at war or in armed conflict.

         Love in Relationships - Mindful Morning (5 May, online): this month’s Mindful Morning offered a panel of
          speakers made up of representatives from Wake Up, Rainbow Sangha and Family Sangha all speaking to what
          Love in Relationships mean to them.

         Long Live Impermanence - Mindful Morning (2 June, online): The theme for the month of June was
          ‘Impermanence’ and the event included a short dharma talk by Thay, followed by ‘Death Cafes’ in small
          groups, following the principles of the Death Cafe organisation https://deathcafe.com.

    ●     Walk with Me: Silent Walking Meditation for Peace (23 June, London): We were joined by six Monastics
          coming from Plum Village France to walk with us in silence, for remembrance, nonviolence and a just peace.
          In the face of escalating violence and loss of life in over 100 wars and armed conflicts worldwide (e.g
          Palestine, Sudan, Ukraine, Myanmar among many others) we held this event, organised by Plum Village UK
          and Quakers in Britain to reflect our shared commitment to non-violence, reconciliation and a just peace,
          representing the spiritual and ethical values of all spiritual communities.

         What is the point of Monks and Nuns? - Mindful Morning with Br Phap Linh (7 July, online): In July we
          hosted a Mindful Morning with Br Phap Linh, who offered a Live Dharma talk and we are delighted to share a
          recording of the session, which you can see by clicking on the video above. Brother Pham Line offered us the
          following question to consider: Could it be that there is a uniquely British ambivalence towards the monastic
          tradition? In this talk, we are invited to take a deep look into our collective history; asking whether the
6   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




          dissolution of the monasteries is a collective wound, and if so, can it still be healed? Could it be that we have
          damaged our relationship with the spiritual dimension, and if so, how can we restore it?

     ●    Sangha Sailing Holiday: Mindfulness and Sailing (6-13 July, Norfolk Broads): Sangha Sailing Holiday with
          Sangha Friends Murray and Thor from July 6th – 13th. Previous sailing holidays have been very enjoyable and
          a natural route into mindfulness.

         Being Peace Sangha Special with Satish Kumar: Being Peace: Peace Within, Peace with people, Peace with
          nature (8 September, online): Satish Kumar gave a talk in support of a Plum Village Practice Centre in the UK.

     ●    Being Peace - The Nonviolent Response to War - Mindful Morning (1 September, online): This month, the
          Mindful Morning included a video compilation of Thay’s teachings on war. We began as usual with a short
          meditation, followed by the video, a break, and Dharma sharing in small groups.

         The Heartfelt Path of Courage and Compassion, Mindful Morning with Ava Avolos (6 October, online): This
          month we will welcome Dharma Teacher Ava Avolos, facilitator of the first Sangha in our tradition in Africa.
          Speaking live from Botswana, Ava will give a talk encouraging us towards a deeper sense of self-honesty and
          discovery, finding opportunities for practice in every moment of daily life.

         Together in Joy fundraising event (13 October): An event to celebrate the end of our public fundraising
          campaign for Being Peace Centre. The event was a blend of pre-recorded and live content, including
          meditation, practice, updates about the project and creative expressions; creating what we hope will be a
          nourishing and inspiring experience, featuring: personal messages, stories, songs and sharings from our
          friends Joan Halifax, Martha Tilston, Krista Tippett, Lama Rod Owens, Jo Confino & Brother Phap Huu, Charles
          Eisenstein & Gabi Enache, Betsy Rose and Sibling Yonten, Plum Village UK Monastics, Kaira Jewel, Christiana
          Figueres, Larry & Peggy Ward, UK Dharma Teachers, Plum Village Inter-Hamlet Choir.

         The Fruits of Our Practice, Mindful Morning (3 November, online): For our November Mindful Morning we
          welcome four practitioners from diverse backgrounds who will share their personal experiences in how their
          practice informs and supports their family relationships. The family can be viewed as our primary sangha, and
          one that perhaps offers more ‘perfect’ opportunities for practice than other aspects of daily life.

     ●    International Walking Meditation: Touching Simplicity (30 November, local): Many local Sanghas in the UK
          joined the international walking meditations, organised by sanghas and Wake Up groups in the tradition of
          Plum Village, the Order of Interbeing, and regional groups of the Network for Mindful Business.

     ●    Meeting Life with Compassionate and Engaged Presence, Mindful Morning (1 December): This month our
          mindful morning was led by Kirsten Kratz and Dene Donalds. For many, the multiple challenges of our times
          and the demands of our personal life can feel overwhelming. During our time together we wish to explore
          skillful ways of resourcing ourselves in the midst of uncertainty, so we can approach difficult aspects of life
          more wisely and compassionately.

Monastic Events

     ●    Monastic Retreat - Peace Begins Here (25-29th March, Stourbridge): a five day retreat, where we learn how
          to cultivate peace, clarity, joy, and resilience. As we generated calmness and insights we saw how we can act
          compassionately and courageously to protect and heal ourselves and our planet Earth.

     ●    The Way Out Is In: Live Podcast Recording (5 April, London): First Live Recording of popular Plum Village
          podcast The Way Out Is In. Zen monk Brother Phap Huu and leadership coach Jo Confino took us on a mindful
          journey into what it truly means to step into freedom.

     ●    Day of Mindfulness and Musical Evening (6 April, London): How can nourishing our sangha heal our society?
          Living in a society that can feel lonely and harsh, taking refuge in our sangha can replenish our joyful energy.
          The Plum Village monastics live and work in a strong community. Learning from them can inspire us to go out
                                                   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   7




        into the world with a smile on our face.

    ●   Peace is the Way: Day of Mindfulness for Changemakers (7 April, London): How can mindfulness help us
        bring about a more peaceful, just world? Amidst the challenges of our times, it’s easy to feel overwhelmed
        and discouraged in the work we do. This day will offer a profound exploration of mindfulness practices,
        inviting us to cultivate resilience, compassion, and clarity in our pursuit of social transformation.

    ●   Afternoon of Mindfulness with Family Sanha (7 April, London): How can mindfulness help families develop
        the skills to promote peace in themselves and in the world around them? The monastics have kindly offered
        this event specifically for families, learning through mindful games, singing and play.


Plans for 2025:

    ●   Continue offering our regular practice, retreats and events
    ●   We are looking forward to hosting a Monastic Retreat in Scotland with the theme ‘Peace is the Way’ in the
        Spring 2025, welcoming up to 200 retreatants to learn how to cultivate peace, joy and non-fear in ourselves,
        even in the heart of great difficulty.
    ●   Hosting Live Podcast Show with ‘The Way Out Is In’ brother Phap Huu and Jo Confino


Community Engagement and Volunteer Opportunities

We actively sought out volunteers to support our myriad offerings and boost our web and community engagement in
2024. This outreach was essential for us to help our community blossom and expand.



Mindfulness courses

       Be Calm Be Happy (BCBH), now The Art of Zen
            o We continued with Be Calm Be Happy courses online and in person. The course is an introduction to
                Plum Village mindfulness, from our teacher Thich Nhat Hanh - suitable for beginners, as well as
                those wishing to gain an overview of the key teachings and how they support each other.
            o The Course was renamed The Art of Zen in November 2024
            o We offered 16 courses and 2 retreats in 2024

       Looking Deeply
            o A follow-on course from BCBH, where we discover how to develop our mindfulness further into our
                experiences and life.
            o We offered 4 Looking Deeply Courses in 2024

       Living Mindfully
             o Also a follow-on course from BCBH, focusing on bringing the Five Mindfulness Trainings (5MTs) more
                fully into our lives, using them as practical guidance and spiritual friends on our intended path of
                living mindfully.
             o We offered 3 Living Mindfully Courses in 2024

       Mindfulness for Neurodiversity
           o An adaptation of the Be Calm Be Happy (Art of Zen) course.
           o We offered 3 Mindfulness for Neurodiversity courses in 2024
8   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




When Be Calm Be Happy was first developed the original idea was to have 3 courses which become a pathway leading
people from no/little experience of Plum Village practices into attending a Sangha and hopefully retreats on a regular
basis. We feel these courses give a good grounding into PV practices and Thay’s teachings along with the Dharma
Training Programme and retreats run by PVUK and PV itself.

In 2024 we offered additional seminars describing this pathway and giving information on all the courses. We support
each of the courses through the facilitation team.

Future plans for 2025 and 2026
In 2025 we are planning to move back to offering more in-person courses, often as weekend residential or non-
residential retreats while continuing offering online courses.

In 2026 we are planning for some retreats to be held at the Being Peace Practice Centre as well as continuing to offer
some regionally and on Zoom. We are also planning for some EDI training for Course Leaders in early 2026.



Being Peace Residential Practice Centre
         Encouraged by the very welcome presence and involvement of Plum Village monastics on our journey in late
          2023 and early 2024, we broadened our aims and we started looking for a property with the potential to
          accommodate 100 people plus camping, and with the capacity for development to include a permanent
          monastic presence in the future. We secured a significant level of donations in early 2024 and we launched a
          6 month fundraising campaign in April 2024, together with a new website beingpeace.uk being launched.

         At this time, we strengthened the Being Peace project team by appointing new Trustees and establishing a
          new Trustees' Being Peace sub-committee to guide the work of the project. We also appointed new project
          management to lead this more intensive phase of the project - Nick Kenrick was appointed as Project Director
          and Noah Walton as Project Manager.

         The property search concluded when Abenhall, in the Forest of Dean, was identified as the most suitable
          available property, and was consulted on with the wider community. Almost 1,500 members of our
          community responded to a survey, giving Abenhall an average rating of 9.2 out of 10 with over 800 people
          giving it 10 out of 10 for overall suitability. This property would allow us to realise Thay’s vision and create a
          home for the whole of the UK Sangha.

         Many individuals and local Sanghas organised fundraising events, coming together to practice, enjoy food
          together, share and raise funds for the Being Peace Practice Centre.

         We also hosted a few special online events to support fundraising for the centre, which included: a Being
          Peace Sangha Special with Satish Kumar: Being Peace: Peace Within, Peace with people, Peace with nature on
          the 8th September, with Satish Kumar giving a talk in support of a Plum Village Practice Centre in the UK as
          well as a Together in Joy fundraising event on 13th October.

         The major fundraising drive substantially increased funds available from donations, loans and legacies raised
          over the previous years. This was hugely successful.
                                                    The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   9




Future plans for 2025 and 2026

    ●   The project delivery team, Trustees and the wider Community to work together to purchase and establish the
        Being Peace Practice Centre.

    ●   To open the Centre in Spring 2026

    ●   To work together to ensure the centre is a safe and welcoming space for all where we can practice together.



Local Sanghas – practice and training
What we do

       Nationally we encourage and support the formation of local practice groups (Sanghas) by putting people in
        an area in touch with one another, offering public liability insurance to affiliated groups and by providing
        opportunities to benefit from the national Dharma teachers.

       Local groups run a variety of regular practice evenings, days of mindfulness, study groups and retreats to
        provide opportunities to practise and learn about mindful living and Thây’s teachings.

How what we do provides public benefit

These activities provide the same public benefits as the National practice and training programme but on a local level
making them as widely geographically accessible as possible.

Action taken in 2024

       We maintained contact with Sanghas across the UK to understand how best to sustain their development.

       We encouraged the development of new Sanghas drawing on the experience of members of established
        Sanghas to assist.

       We supported and encouraged Sanghas to engage actively with fundraising efforts to make the vision for
        Being Peace Centre a reality

Future plans

       Support Sangha facilitators with opportunities for development.

       Continue to be open to opportunities to increase the number of Sanghas and to help them deepen the
        practice of people attending.

       Continue to work to ensure that all our Sanghas and events are safe and inclusive spaces, including
        strengthening our approach to Safeguarding, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, by offering and signposting
        existing and new facilitators to relevant training.

       Identify ways to attract more diverse Sangha members and ensure the Sanghas are a safe and welcoming
        space for all.

       Working with regional OI Families, developing plans for supporting local sanghas in the regions - providing
        practical and facilitation support to newly established sanghas
10   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




Publications service
What we do

         Provide a service selling books, CDs and DVDs of Thich Nhat Hanh’s teachings and meditation bells.

How what we do provides public benefit

         Our service is available from our website and at retreats and Dharma training events and is open to any
          member of the public. Profits from the service are used to fund the development of our national and local
          activities.

Action taken in 2024

         We continued to provide the publications service. Feedback indicates how positively this service is viewed by
          members. We are able to recommend specific books based on people’s interests.

         Our online shop flourished on the website and shared new book releases with members via our monthly
          newsletter. Almost all activity for the shop now takes place online, though opportunities to run a shop for
          participants at large retreats remains important.


Future plans for 2025-26

         We plan to improve the way the online shop works on the website, developing our service and making it
          easier to find publications and to order them. We also intend to set up a shop at the Being Peace Centre.



Communications
What we do

         Maintain a website and social media sites and feeds which provide information and inspiration about our
          practice and about opportunities to take part in retreats and training and to join like-minded people in local
          Sanghas.

         Provide a facility for UK residents to subscribe to “Mindfulness Bell”, the international journal of the art of
          mindful living. “Mindfulness Bell” is an inspiration and teaching resource for those practising mindfulness in
          daily life. Each issue features a teaching by Thich Nhat Hanh.

         Liaise with Plum Village, the monastery in France established by Thich Nhat Hanh.

         Provide a monthly e-News (Here & Now). This is an email newsletter to the broadest subscribing list of
          friends and it provides updates from Plum Village, the UK community, and details of upcoming retreats and
          activity in the UK. It also includes short dharma teachings to inspire.

         We aim to provide and share inspirational dharma teachings – this has been done in a regular way through
          our weekly e-News “Dharmabites” sent to our members and via social media.


How what we do benefits the public

Our communications programme supports and facilitates the achievement of our other activities and hence benefits
the public as explained above.
                                                  The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   11




Action taken in 2024

       We continued to publish “Here and Now” to detail our programme of events each month.

       We published weekly Dharmabites emails for subscribing members throughout 2024.

       We launched, maintained and updated a dedicated website for the Being Peace Practice Centre:
        beingpeace.uk as well as social media channels

       We established a dedicated mailing list for supporters of the Being Peace Practice Centre and published
        approx. 30 dedicated newsletters, including updates about the project progress, nourishing content and
        invitations to events.

       We maintained membership using online direct debit, allowing us to build effective ad hoc communication
        with COI members. We regularly communicated with members about our events.

       Grew communications Sangha with volunteers supporting with editing our online publications ‘Here&Now’
        and ‘Dharmabites’

       Developed a lively presence on the plumvillage.uk and beingpeace.uk blog and social media, promoting the
        teachings of Thich Nhat Hanh, our events, retreats and courses as well as updates from the projects.

       Worked together with representatives from affinity groups and received feedback and comments on our
        content, in order to ensure that our communications are inclusive and accessible for diverse audiences


Future plans for 2025 and 2026

       Grow the communications Sangha with additional volunteers who have a background in practice and
        specialist communication skills.

       Understand how our community is reached and engaged online in ways that are most broadly and fully
        inclusive.

       Continue to develop social media presences (including blog) and our newsletters to promote our charity and
        our major events in 2025/26.

       Make it much easier for people to become members through the website.

       Develop the website for the Being Peace Practice Centre to facilitate booking retreats and promoting events
        at the Centre.

       Continue developing clear communication between Plum Village UK and the Being Peace Practice Centre
        websites

    ●   Launching a Plum Village UK podcast ‘Going as a River’

       Continue to offer regional and local Sanghas the opportunity to affiliate to the COI through the website,
        ensuring they continue to benefit from being covered by our public liability insurance provision, support for
        Safeguarding and other charity policies, and benefit from being listed on the PVUK website which is
        resourced and maintained through our charity’s funds.
12   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




Technical systems
What we do
As our organisation grows we are using more IT systems, against a growing global background of hacking attempts.
We manage all our systems, e.g. our web sites and their many components. We provide a secure workspace for many
users and support them with any issues. We manage software licences for all our systems, e.g. Zoom. We manage
other systems for event bookings and mailshots. We maintain up to date information for all Sanghas who wish to be
listed on our website.

How what we do benefits the public

         Our web site makes our offerings visible to the public who can engage with us in many ways:
               o book events in advance such as retreats
               o sign up for membership and newsletters
               o follow our major projects such as Being Peace
               o join in online practice such as Morning Meditations
               o order resources such as books, bells etc.
         We are using a CRM system to be more aware of people's engagement with the charity.
         By looking after data management and security, we protect the data of all members and donors

Actions taken in 2024

         Supported many events both online and in-person, including transmission of the Five Mindfulness Trainings
         Supported the monastic tour and the Stourbridge Retreat
         Supported the multi-faith peace walk, several DTP retreats
         Completed the transition from Eventbrite to Ticket Tailor
         Added the search function to the inline shop
         Improved the appearance of the events calender
         Finished moving all Dharma Teachers to PVUK accounts
         Made several improvements to website security
         Improved secure access to membership list of OI
         Moved financial data to shared Google workspace
         We created a website for Being Peace
         Supported an Art Auction and a Dharma dog show Project, via a contractor
         We rationalised our Mailchimp audiences into one, via a contractor
         Purchased a new Macbook for our Communications Manager
         Subscriptions to MS Office and DocuSign for Being Peace Project
         Found a new website contractor to replace previous one
         Extended our free Google ads to cover beingpeace domain


Future plans for 2025 and 2026

         Support of the Monastic Tour and Stirling Retreat
     ●    Assist with large London event on Friday 2 September 2025
         Strengthen our interactions with OI families and Sangha Regions
         Assist with setting up new systems for the Being Peace project
         Create an IT training session for Trustees
         Remove from the PVUK website:
          Donor records where the donor never donated
          Old recurring donations data after switch to Enthuse
         Extend recent security improvements to all PVUK accounts
         Automate some internal processes e.g. membership
         Planned retirement of Philip Croton, replaced by Jake Hoban
                                                     The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   13




Dana
What we do

The practice of dana or giving is a fundamental practice in Buddhism. The Community of Interbeing provides
opportunities for people to give of their time and expertise and to give monetary donations. There are opportunities
to support us in the UK and to contribute to international charities associated with Thich Nhat Hanh and Plum Village
including the Thich Nhat Hanh UK Action Fund and the relief of poverty in Vietnam.

How what we do benefits the public

Our dana programme benefits the public both directly and indirectly. Direct benefits come through the alleviation of
suffering and the teaching of programmes of mindful living. Indirect benefits come through the encouragement of
responsible living and of the importance of charitable giving.

Action taken in 2024

       Continued to offer a variety of opportunities for financial giving including joining the Community of
        Interbeing. We centred fundraising efforts on the creation of the Being Peace Practice Centre.

       Enabled more use of the website to manage fundraising and payment across all our activities.

       Continued to offer opportunities to volunteer to help the development of the Community of Interbeing. The
        Community directly benefits from the countless hours of selfless service provided by many members and
        supporters. Up to 100 people offer their time and skills lovingly to do many of the tasks needed in the
        organisation including looking after the cottage, organising retreats, managing our members, looking after
        our money and much more.

Future plans

       Continue with our existing programmes and try to encourage more people to join and/or donate to and
        support the Community of Interbeing.

       Develop our legacy programme to encourage members and supporters to provide us with funds for future
        project development.

       Recruit more volunteers to help us mindfully support our initiatives including but not limited to:

               o   Marketing support to help us get our message out there more clearly
               o   The Art of Zen Course Leaders
               o   Fundraising, financial and project support for the Residential Practice Centre
               o   Supporting our retreat organisation at all levels
               o   Supporting Safeguarding
               o   Supporting Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
14   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




Engaged Action
What we do
Many of our community members are very active in offering mindfulness practice to others in an engaged way.
Examples include activism in racial and social justice, climate action and Earth holding, prison chaplaincy, healthcare
chaplaincy, and teaching in schools. Many community members are engaged in significant ways across many such
areas.

How what we do benefits the public

The engaged action of our members benefits the public both directly and indirectly. Direct benefits come through the
contact and support with chaplains, teachers, and activists, and the associated ability to live more mindfully and
calmly. This indirectly benefits all around those who have benefited from this contact.

Action taken in 2024

         Together with Quakers in Britain, a Multi-Faith Peace Walk in London was initiated and organised by Aspirant
          Dharma Teacher Rehena Harilall. The Silent Walking Meditation for Peace on 21 January 2024 was joined by
          more a thousand people. The event aimed at transcending religious and cultural boundaries and brought us
          together to call for peace amidst the rising challenges of hatred, anger, destruction, displacement, and
          suffering. The ‘Peace is Every Step’ Silent Walking Meditation was joined by representatives from eleven
          faiths who offered their prayers prior to starting the silent walk towards the Parliament Square.

     ●    Reverence for Life: Multi-Faith Event with Meditation, Reflection and Music (28 April): we come together to
          reflect how the ethics of our faiths support our engaged action and dedication to nonviolence, reconciliation,
          justice and peace.This Multi-faith dialogue with luminaries from Islam, Judaism, Christianity and Buddhism
          offers us an opportunity to explore how our practices and scriptures provide us with clarity, courage and
          resolve to engage in compassionate action for ceasefire, justice and peace for Palestine, Sudan, Ukraine,
          Syria, Myanmar, Israel, Russia and the 30 more countries currently at war or in armed conflict.

         Walk with Me: Silent Walking Meditation for Peace (23 June, London): We were joined by six Monastics
          coming from Plum Village France to walk with us in silence, for remembrance, nonviolence and a just peace.
          In the face of escalating violence and loss of life in over 100 wars and armed conflicts worldwide (e.g
          Palestine, Sudan, Ukraine, Myanmar among many others) we held this event, organised by Plum Village UK
          and Quakers in Britain to reflect our shared commitment to non-violence, reconciliation and a just peace,
          representing the spiritual and ethical values of all spiritual communities.

         Together in Peace Meditations (Monday - Saturday, online) and Engaged Practice for Peace (bi-weekly) - we
          offer these regular practices online, coming together to practice guided meditation, deep looking and deep
          listening in order to generate the energy of compassion; for ourselves, each other, and all those suffering
          from the effects of war and climate change.

         The outreach programme continued to be delivered in 2024 by Dharma teacher, Dene Donalds.

         The programme reviewed the learnings and benefits of the Outreach programme to identify future possible
          initiatives.

     ●    We introduced the Earth Care Sangha (monthly gathering), Earth Care book club, blog posts articulating ways
          that we can act from a Buddhist perspective of being interwoven with the Earth to support and contribute to
          the response and transformation required by the increasing urgency of the climate crisis, and published a
          dedicated page on our website including resources for Caring for the Earth, in order to increase the presence
          and importance of responding to climate change and the environment in our community,
                                                The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   15




Charity Information

CURRENT TRUSTEES

Mr Philip Croton
Dr Jonathan Edwards
Dr Allison Fraser
Mr Jake Hoban
Ms Phuong Quach
Mr Esteban Ruseler
Ms Angela Searle

COMPANY SECRETARY
Ms Isabelle Wen




LEGAL STATUS

Registered Charity
No 1096680

Company Registration
No 04623280

FURTHER INFORMATION

Website: www.plumvillage.uk


BANKERS
Bath Building Society, 15 Queen Square, Bath, BA1 2HN
The Co-operative Bank, PO Box 250, Skelmersdale, WN8 6WT
Ecology Building Society, 7 Belton Road, Keighley, West Yorkshire, BD20 0EE
Monmouthshire Building Society, Monmouthshire House, John Frost Square, Newport, NP20 1PX
Nationwide Building Society, Nationwide House, Pipers Way, Swindon, SN38 1NW
Flagstone Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Clareville House, 26-27 Oxendon Street, London, SW1Y 4EL


AUDITOR
Alex Chandler ACA, Sygma Chartered Accountants, 1 Sopwith Crescent, Wickford, Essex, SS11 8YU
16   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




Annual Report of the Trustees of the Community of Interbeing UK for the year ended 31 December 2024

1 Factual Information

1.1 Structure
The Community of Interbeing UK is a company limited by guarantee (company number 04623280) and a registered
charity (Charity number 1096680). The Charity also uses the working name “Plum Village UK”.

1.2 Objects
The Objects of the Community of Interbeing UK are:
    a) To advance, support and encourage the study and practice of Buddhism and mindful living in accordance with
        the teachings of meditation master Thich Nhat Hanh, in the UK and overseas, in keeping with the Five
        Mindfulness Trainings.
    b) To assist and encourage the formation and activities of regional and local groups having this common
        purpose.

1.3 Governance
The Charity is managed by a Committee of Trustees. The trustees are also the directors of the Charity for the purposes
of the Companies Act. All trustees are required to be members of the Community of Interbeing UK who have taken
the Five Mindfulness Trainings. Trustees are recruited on the basis of skills needs identified by the Board of Trustees.
A variety of methods is used to identify suitable candidates. Trustees are elected by the members of the Charity at the
Annual General Meeting. Each year one third of the Trustees retire by rotation. The Committee of Trustees has the
power to co-opt members during the year but these members must stand for election at the next Annual General
Meeting.

1.4 Management
The Committee of Trustees currently comprises 7 members and meets formally in person or via videoconference call
several times a year. Members of the Committee individually or in small groups also act to take forward the Charity’s
plans assisted by other volunteers. Trustee directors serving since the last annual report have been:

Ms Liz Beth (appointed 15 February 2020, elected 19 September 2020, resigned 6 December 2024)
Mr Philip Croton (appointed 17 April 2020, elected 19 September 2020, re-elected 24 September 2022)
Mr Miles Dunmore (appointed 10 May 2024, elected 5 October 2024, resigned 26 May 2025)
Dr Jonathan Edwards (Treasurer, appointed 6 January 2014, elected 24 May 2014, re-elected 23 September 2023)
Dr Mary Allison Fraser (appointed 13 June 2025)
Ms Rehena Harilall (appointed 10 May 2024, elected 5 October 2024, resigned 1 November 2024)
Ms Janet Hempsall (appointed 13 September 2024, elected 5 October 2024, resigned 16 May 2025)
Mr Jachin Boaz Hoban (appointed 18 July 2025)
Mr Kevin Place (appointed 12 June 2020, elected 19 September 2020, resigned 26 April 2024)
Ms Phuong Quach (appointed 10 May 2024, elected 5 October 2024)
Mr William Robinson (appointed 10 May 2024, elected 5 October 2024, resigned 24 May 2025)
Mr Esteban Ruseler (appointed 10 May 2024, elected 5 October 2024)
Ms Angela Searle (appointed 30 August 2018, elected 29 September 2018, re-elected 5 October 2024)

The Company Secretary is Ms Isabelle Wen (appointed 5 April 2008).

2 Review of Activities
The review of activities is set out in the 2024 Annual Review of activities.

3 Financial Review
Total income for the year was £1,164,571 (2023 £314,405). 2024 was the first year in the history of the Charity where
our income exceeded £1,000,000, so a full audit of the accounts and financial statements by a chartered accountant is
required. Alex Chandler ACA of Sygma Chartered Accountants has been instructed by the Trustees to carry out the
audit and his report appears on page 26 to 28.
Donations from members and supporters responding to our fundraising campaign to raise money for the purchase of
a Practice Centre totalled more than £850,000 and account for the large increase in income over previous years.
                                                    The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   17




Friendly loans received towards the purchase of a Practice Centre totalled just over £250,000 repayable over 5 or 10
years. These loans appear under “Creditors” on the Balance Sheet but are not included in the annual income. A
significant number of donations for Plum Village France were also received during the year, and the Monastic Tour
raised £25,656 for the Plum Village France construction fund and £19,694 for the Being Peace Practice Centre fund.

Total expenditure for the year was £385,946 (2023 £262,677). Fundraising, management, planning, legal and set up
costs for the Practice Centre amounted to just over £136k, and donations totalling £55,656 were sent on to Plum
Village France. Wages and Contractor costs accounted for 47.7% of the total expenditure; the Charity employed one
member of staff during 2024 and purchased administrative and technical services from several contractors, see Note
12 for details. Much work is also undertaken for the Charity by volunteers who receive no payment other than
reimbursement of expenses necessarily expended for their duties.

4 Risk Management
The major risks to which the Charity is exposed, as identified by the trustees, have been reviewed during the year and
the trustees are satisfied that systems have been established to mitigate those risks. The trustees recognise their
responsibility to maintain robust safeguarding arrangements across all activities. The charity’s child protection and
safeguarding policies and procedures are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain appropriate and effective. During
2025, the trustees reported to the Charity Commission a safeguarding matter that arose in 2024 following further
review. The matter remains under consideration, and the trustees have initiated additional training and policy reviews
to strengthen governance and safeguarding practice going forward.

The Charity holds an insurance policy (“Buddhist Combined Charity Policy”) underwritten by Ecclesiastical Insurance.
The policy includes public and employer's liability insurances, both up to £10M covering employees and volunteers,
and accident cover for our volunteers. The insurance policy covers all of our events (including major retreats and
walking events for example) and Trustee liability. Events organised by regional and local sanghas affiliated to the
Community of Interbeing UK are covered by our Public Liability Insurance.

5 Format of Financial Statements
The report and accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Charities SORP (FRS 102) and the Companies
Act 2006.

6 Trustees’ Responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements
Legal regulations require the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair
view of the Charity’s financial activities for the year and of its financial position at the end of the year. In preparing
those financial statements, the trustees are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 state whether applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice have been followed
     subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Charity
     will continue in business.
The trustees are responsible for keeping accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Charity and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Charity and hence for taking reasonable steps
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Approved by the Committee of Trustees and signed on their behalf by




Dr J Edwards
Trustee and Director

28 October 2025
18   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024


                                                                         Unrestricted      Restricted        Total         Total
                                                Notes                       funds           funds             2024         2023
INCOMING RESOURCES
From generated funds
Voluntary income:
   Subscriptions                                                                                   -             -            -
   Donations                             11                                       58,266     927,209       985,475      180,725
Activities for generating funds                                                                                  -            -
   Merchandise sales                                                                   -            -            -            -
Investment income:                                                                                               -            -
   Income from sale of Being Peace Cottage6                                                                      -        5,000
   Interest                                                                        1,135      16,174        17,309        5,036
From charitable activities                                                                                       -            -
   Educational events & publications      2                                   116,437         45,350       161,787      123,644
   Other                                                                            -              -             -            -
Total incoming resources                                                      175,838        988,733     1,164,571      314,405

EXPENDED RESOURCES
Costs of generating voluntary income
   Wages & associated costs                       12                           24,394                       24,394       23,517
   Marketing & Communications                                                   1,221              -         1,221        1,416
Cost of charitable activities                                                       -              -             -            -
   Educational events & publications               3                           71,443              -        71,443       90,840
   Donations, bursaries and expenses              11                           24,006         75,061        99,067      131,558
   Administrative costs                            4                           29,275              -        29,275       14,852
   Contractor costs                               12                           42,419        117,265       159,684
Governance costs                                   5                              862              -           862          493
Total resources expended                                                      193,620        192,326       385,946      262,676

Net incoming/outgoing resources
before transfers                                                              (17,782)       796,407       778,625       51,728
Transfers                                         11                                                             -            -
Net movement of funds                                                         (17,782)       796,407       778,625       51,728

RECONCILIATION OF FUNDS
Balance brought forward at 1 January                                          219,330     693,655           912,985     861,258
Balance carried forward at 31 December                                   £    201,548 £ 1,490,062       £ 1,691,610 £   912,985




The Accounting Policies and the Notes on pages 20 to 25 form part of these Accounts.
                                                 The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   19




BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

                                                          Unrestricted       Restricted           Total          Total
                                      Notes                      funds           funds
                                                                                                   2024           2023

TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS                   6                                -              -

CURRENT ASSETS
Stock of publications                                               3500              -          3,500          3,689
Debtors                                 7                        25,542         101,710        127,252        106,386
Cash at bank and in hand                                         213,677      1,639,201      1,852,878        864,853
                                                                 242,719      1,740,911      1,983,630        974,928


CURRENT LIABILITIES
Amounts falling due within
one year                                8a                        41,171                        41,171          61,943

NET CURRENT ASSETS                                               201,549      1,740,911      1,942,460        912,985

Creditors                              8b                                       250,849        250,849

NET ASSETS                                                     £201,549 £1,490,062 £1,691,611                £912,985

Represented by:
FUNDS
Unrestricted                                                   £201,549          -   £201,549                £219,330
Restricted                              11                            - 1,490,062 1,490,062                   693,655
TOTAL FUNDS                                                    £201,549 £1,490,062 £1,691,611                £912,985



The Accounting Policies and the Notes on pages 20 to 25 form part of these Accounts




Approved by the trustees on 28 October 2025 and signed on their behalf by:




Dr J Edwards
Trustee and Director
The Community of Interbeing UK
20   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024

1. Accounting Policies

(a) Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been drawn up under the historical cost convention. The financial statements have
been prepared in accordance with the Charities SORP (FRS 102) (as amended by Update Bulletin 2), applicable UK
accounting standards, and the Companies Act 2006.

(b) Company status
The Charity is a company limited by guarantee. In the event of the Charity being wound up, the liability in respect of
the guarantee is limited to £10 per member.

(c) Fund accounting
The Charity has two types of funds, unrestricted, and restricted. The unrestricted funds are available for use at the
discretion of the trustees in furtherance of the general objectives of the Charity. Restricted funds are funds that are to
be used in accordance with specific restrictions imposed by the providers of the funds.

(d) Recognition of Income
Donations, and other forms of voluntary income are dealt with when the Charity is legally entitled to the income and
the amount can be quantified with reasonable accuracy. Membership subscriptions are due on 1 January each year
and are recognised as received. Sales of publications and income from retreats are dealt with on an accruals basis. Gift
Aid receivable is included in the category of income to which it relates. No amounts are included in the financial
statements for services donated by volunteers.

(e) Recognition of Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised when a liability is incurred. Expenditure on future retreats is deferred until the retreat takes
place.

(f) Depreciation
No depreciation is provided on freehold premises since this would be immaterial having regard to the length of the
useful economic life of the property. Depreciation of equipment is provided on cost at the rate of 25% per annum.

(g) Assets
Fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation. Stock of publications is stated at the lower of cost and realisable
value. Debtors are stated at the amount expected to be recoverable.


2. Income from educational events and publications
                                                                                   2024          2023

Retreats, courses and Being Peace Cottage income                              90,138     72,407
Income from organising major retreat (i)                                      54,029     38,820
Sale of publications & bells                                                  17,068     12,417
                                                                           £ 161,235 £ 123,644
(i) Reported as net income for 2023/4 and applied to restricted funds (2024 - £8679 unrestricted)

3. Expenditure on educational events and publications
                                                                                          2024          2023

Retreat, Courses (and Being Peace Cottage expenditure pre 24)                         55,270   79,569
Course leader fees, event coordinator, Dharma teacher dana & expenses                 42,419
Books, other publications & bells                                                     16,173   11,271
                                                                                   £ 113,862 £ 90,840

Related distribution costs are included in the cost of books and other publications
                                                   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   21




Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024 (continued)



4. Admininstration costs
                                                                     2024            2023

Bookkeeping and accountancy                                         443      410
Insurance                                                         1,370    1,135
Website, Zoom and other IT costs                                  8,580    9,590
IT Fees for processing donations (ii)                            11,193    3,211
Bank charges & other administrative costs                         2,455      505
Extraordinary costs (2024 Peace walk and film)                    3,965
Project cost salary (2024 PV UK IT support)                       1,269        -
                                                               £ 29,275 £ 14,852
(ii) Donation income previously reported as net of fees.
     From 2023 reported as gross income and fees.

The Charity employed one member of staff during 2024, the employment costs are included under “Marketing and
Communications” expenditure. Otherwise the work of the Charity is carried out by volunteers and by the purchase of
services from a number of individuals. These expenses are included under expenditure on educational events and
publications (Note 3) and administration costs (Note 4).


5. Governance
                                                                                     2024        2023

Room hire                                                                              -            -
Independent examination and statutory costs                                          553          493
Trustees' meeting travel expenses                                                    309            -
                                                                             £       862 £        493


3 Trustees (2023: 0) received reimbursement of their travelling expenses totalling £309 (2023: £NIL) in relation to
their role as Trustee Director.


6. Fixed assets                                 2024                                            2023
                                            Freehold Equipment            Total             Freehold Equipment            Total
                                            premises                                        premises
                                                   £         £                   £                 £         £                  £

As at 1 January                                      -           -               -           300,000             -     300,000
Gain on Sale of Property (9th March 23)              -           -               -             5,000             -       5,000
Disposals (sale of property)                         -           -               -          (305,000)            -    (305,000)
As at 31 December                                   -            -               -                 -             -              -


The freehold premises were occupied by the Charity as a retreat practice centre. During the year 2022 the property
was put on the market for sale with an asking price of £300,000. An offer was accepted in July 2022 and the property
                                             th
was finally sold for the sum of £305,000 on 9 March 2023.
22   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024 (continued)



7. Debtors                                                                           2024          2023

Gift Aid                                                                          118,960       104,664
Other debtors                                                                       8,292         1,722
Prepayments

                                                                          £       127,252 £     106,386




8a. Liabilities: Amounts falling due within one year                                     2024     2023

Loans                                                                                      -        -
Deposits received for Retreats                                                        14,539   56,677
Accruals                                                                              26,631    5,266
                                                                                    £ 41,170 £ 61,943

8b. Liabilites
Friendly Loans Practice Centre (Abenhall)

5 year friendly loan                                                                   60,000
10 year friendly loan                                                                 190,849
                                                                                    £ 250,849


9. Reserves adequacy
Much of the Unrestricted fund represents fixed and working assets required by the Charity to carry on its day to day
work. The remainder of the Unrestricted fund comprises cash at bank. For the Charity to function successfully, it must
maintain an adequate level of Unrestricted reserves that can be used to finance the Charity’s day to day operations
and provide a precautionary reserve in case of fluctuations in the future level of income. The Trustees consider it
appropriate that the level of precautionary reserve should be of the order of twelve months’ expected future
expenditure plus an allowance for property maintenance. At 31 December 2024, the Charity’s bank balances were in
excess of £50,000 above this level. The Trustees are satisfied that this situation is satisfactory having regard to the
expected pattern of expenditure over the next few years especially the set up costs of future major events and the
acquisition of new practice centres.
                                                           The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   23




Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024 (continued)


10. Statutory and general information

This note contains information required to comply with statutory and technical accounting pronouncements:

(i) In relation to the statement of financial activities

None of the Charity’s activities was acquired or discontinued during the current or previous years. Accordingly all of
the Charity’s results relate to continuing operations.

As the Charity is a company limited by guarantee, it is required to present an income and expenditure account in its
financial statements. The Charity’s Statement of Financial Activities includes all matters that would require inclusion
in an income and expenditure account and hence no separate income and expenditure account is presented.

Because the Charity has no gains and losses not disclosed in the Statement of Financial Activities, a statement of total
recognised gains and losses for the year has not been presented as this would be the same as the Statement of
Financial Activities.

No taxation is payable as the Society is a registered Charity and accordingly is entitled to exemption from taxation on
its charitable activities.

(ii) Balance sheet

There are no pension or other contingencies at 31 December 2024 and 2023.
24   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024




Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024 (continued)




11. Donations and Subscriptions

Restricted Funds

                                  UK Action
                                   Fund for   Vietnam     Practice   Wake Up
                                      PV       Dana     Centre Fund   Fund                        Total
                                       £         £           £          £                           £
Balance at 01 January 2024            59,210    17,972      597,993    18,480                      693,655
Donations received 2024               68,929      4,943     853,338         -                      927,209
Other income (Monastic Tour 2024)     25,656          -      19,694         -                       45,350
Interest                                    -         -      16,174         -                       16,174
                                    153,795     22,915    1,487,198    18,480                    1,682,388
Applied during the year              (55,656)              (136,670)                              (192,326)
Transfer                                    -         -                     -                             -
Balance at 31 December 2024         £98,139    £22,915   £1,350,528   £18,480                   £1,490,062

Comprising
Debtors (GiftAid)                              37,870         3,940          59,900         -      101,710
Creditors                                           -             -               -         -            -
Cash                                           60,269        18,975       1,290,628    18,480    1,388,352
                                              £98,139       £22,915      £1,350,528   £18,480   £1,490,062

During the year, the "Practice Centre" restricted fund drew down £250,849 of "friendly loans" at 0%
to purchase a practice centre in 2025. These loans are shown on the balance sheet but not in "cash" above.
£60,000 of these loans (from 3 people) are to be repaid within 5 years (31/12/29) and £190,849 (from
6 people) are to be repaid within 10 years (31/12/34). The loans are from members of the COI, are unsecured
and will be repaid from the Practice Centre restricted funds income at the end of their term.


Prior year comparison:
                                  UK Action
                                   Fund for   Vietnam     Practice   Wake Up
                                      PV       Dana     Centre Fund   Fund                       Total
                                       £         £           £          £                          £
Balance at 01 January 2023            84,568    14,227      232,264    18,480                     349,539
Donations received 2023               40,352      3,745      81,515         -                     125,613
Other income (Monastic Tour 2023)     20,658          -      18,162         -                      38,820
Interest                                    -         -       3,582         -                        3,582
                                    145,578     17,972      335,523    18,480                     517,553
Applied during the year              (86,368)               (44,836)                             (131,204)
Transfer                                    -         -     307,306         -                     307,306
Balance at 31 December 2023         £59,210    £17,972     £597,993   £18,480                    £693,655

Comprising
Debtors (GiftAid)                              37,800         3,064          47,900         -      88,764
Creditors                                           -             -               -         -           -
Cash                                           21,410        14,908         550,093    18,480     604,891
                                              £59,210       £17,972        £597,993   £18,480    £693,655
                                                   The Community of Interbeing UK Annual Report and Financial Statements 2024   25




Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024 (continued)

The UK Action Fund for Plum Village (PV) comprises donations given to support the monastic community in Plum
Village, France and the European Institute of Applied Buddhism (EIAB) in Germany.

The Vietnam Dana Fund comprises donations given to support Plum Village’s “Humanitarian Relief” programme which
offers material and spiritual support to hundreds of communities in the poorest areas of Vietnam where education,
development, social services and relief work are in great need to ensure healthy and happy lives for all.
The donations received are paid to Plum Village to be spent in Vietnam in the way Plum Village considers best to meet
current needs.

The Practice Centre Fund collects donations to finance the acquisition of practice centres for the UK Sangha.

The Wake Up Fund is for donations to support Wake Up, which promotes Thây’s teachings for young people.




12. Wages and Contractor Costs

Reported separately from expenses starting from 2024

Restricted                                                                             2024
Contractor Costs
Being Peace Contractor Costs                                                      £107,673.00
Abenhall appraisal contractors and associated expenses                              £9,592.00

Total Restricted Contractor costs                                                 £     117,265



Unrestricted                                                                           2024
Wages & Associated costs
           Salary                                                  £17,776.00
           Pension                                                    £995.00
           NI                                                       £2,473.00
           Office                                                   £2,718.00
           Payroll admin                                              £432.00
Total Wages & Associated Costs                                                        £24,394.00

Contractor Costs
           Event Coordinator                                  £11,280.00
           Dharma Teacher (and trainee) dana (gifts) and expenses
                                                               £4,359.00
           AOZ Course leader fees                             £21,870.00
           AOZ Course Coordinator                              £4,256.00
           Book Service Commission                               £654.00
Total Contractor Costs                                                                £42,419.00

Total Unrestricted Wages & Contractor Costs                                       £      66,813
