                              THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




                              A PUSH FOR LASTING PEACE
Photo: Maja Janevska Ilieva
                                   THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 WHO WE ARE                                                                                                                4
      1.1 Our values                                                                                                        4
      1.2 Our vision and mandate                                                                                            4
      1.3 Where we work                                                                                                     5

2 KVINNA TILL KVINNA’S JOURNEY                                                                                              6

3 GLOBAL CONTEXT                                                                                                            7
      3.1 Conflict, militarisation and climate change                                                                       7
      3.2 Economic and political rights and gender justice                                                                  8
      3.3 Gender based violence and sexual and reproductive health and rights                                               9
      3.4 Feminist movement-building and shrinking civic space                                                             10

4 OUR FUTURE DIRECTION                                                                                                     11
      4.1 Our theory of change                                                                                             11
      4.2 Our areas of change                                                                                              12
      4.3 Contributing to change through three avenues                                                                     17

5 THE WAY WE WORK                                                                                                          18
      5.1 Our approaches                                                                                                   18
      5.2 Our programmatic work and partnerships                                                                           19
      5.3 Our knowledge, studies and research                                                                              20
      5.4 Our communication and advocacy                                                                                   20

6 IMPLEMENTING THE STRATEGY                                                                                                21
      6.1 Our organisational priorities                                                                                    21
      6.2 Funding                                                                                                          22
      6.3 Risk-management, safety and security                                                                             23
      6.4 Monitoring for social change                                                                                     23

7 GLOSSARY OF TERMS                                                                                                        24




LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AIDS         Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome                         Sida   Swedish International Development
CEDAW        Convention on the Elimination of All Forms                        Cooperation Agency
             of Discrimination against Women                            SOP    Standard operating procedure
GBV          Gender-based violence                                      SRHR   Sexual and reproductive health and rights
HIV          Human immunodeficiency virus                               ToC    Theory of Change
HRBA         Human rights-based approach                                UN     United Nations
LGBTQI+      Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex       USA    United States of America
             (“+” denotes everything on the gender and sexuality        WEE    Women’s economic empowerment
             spectrum that letters and words cannot yet describe)
                                                                        WHRD   Women human rights defender
MENA         Middle East and North Africa
                                                                        WPS    Women, Peace and Security
NGO          Non-governmental organisation

                                                                    2
                              THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




OUR NEW DIRECTION

A peaceful and just world for everyone. That is what Kvinna till Kvinna has set out to achieve. Together with
our partner organisations across the world we enable empowerment of women, both in their own lives and in
society, without attaching importance to religious, political, national or ethnic affiliation.

Since the beginning of this century the world has experienced deteriorating respect for women’s rights and
gender equality. The twin-pandemics of covid-19 and increased domestic violence have set back the agenda for
women’s self-determination even further. In parallel we see how the climate crisis in combination with numerous
violent conflicts on national and global levels are causing the destruction of lives and unprecedented numbers
of refugees and displaced people. The combination of it all have left us with alarming assaults on women’s rights,
legal protections being dismantled and women human rights defenders at unprecedented risk.

Grounded in our 30 years of working for women’s rights in conflict areas, we will in the coming strategy period
amplify our own voice and that of our partners—because together, we have the power to be recognised and
heard. We must work together for the protection and promotion of women’s rights and towards a feminist
peace. Therefore, we will continue our work to call for the equal and meaningful participation of women in all
peacebuilding work, including as representatives in peace negotiation processes.

We will also find new ways of supporting feminist movements and women human rights defenders beyond
our current presence. We will broaden our partnerships to include more changemakers in the fight for peace
and equal opportunities through networks, informal groups and grassroots organisations, as well as non-
traditional actors such as international financial institutions, private companies and authorities. We, more clearly,
highlight the importance of economic rights and justice, and sexual and reproductive health in our organisational
theory of change. We also see the support to strong feminist women’s rights movements as a means to an end
as well as an end-goal in itself.

To become a stronger and more flexible enabler of change, we will diversify our institutional funding and invest
heavily in our private fundraising. To stay relevant as one of the world’s most prominent women’s rights
organisations working in conflict affected areas, we will continue to challenge ourselves and our partners in
finding methods to work with intersectional approaches to feminism and anti-racism.

As violent conflicts and humanitarian crisis increase—both in numbers and protraction—the need for acute
relief and support grows stronger. We will continue to balance these needs with the long-term work for democracy
and human rights necessary for the achievement of lasting peace.

Let this strategy be our compass for the years to come.




                          Devrim Mavi
                          Chairperson of the Board,
                          The Kvinna till Kvinna Foundation
                          Stockholm, June 2022




                                                          3
                                          THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




1 WHO WE ARE
The Kvinna till Kvinna Foundation has defended women’s rights since 1993. For every woman and girl’s right to
be safe and to be heard.

Today, we are one of the world’s leading feminist women’s rights organisations, working directly in areas affected
by war and conflict to strengthen the influence and power of all women. We work closely together with around
150 partner organisations in 20 countries to defend women’s rights, achieve gender equality and justice, and
reach lasting feminist peace.1

As part of the global feminist and women’s rights movement, we advocate for women’s full and effective participa-
tion in peace processes and call for women’s position to be strengthened, so all people may shape the develop-
ment of society on equal terms. We also work with our partners to support women affected by poverty.

Kvinna till Kvinna promotes human rights for all women in line with the United Nations’ Universal Declaration
of Human Rights. Our work is anchored in global agreements such as the Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, the Sustainable
Development Agenda, and the Women, Peace and Security agenda initiated by UN Security Council Resolution
1325. We recognise that women have a wide diversity of experiences and lived realities and therefore take
an intersectional feminist approach, to address the specific needs of different groups of women and support
diverse feminist movements. Our definition of women is inclusive and refers to all persons who self-identify
as women. Our partners work with women of all ages, including young women and girls.


1.1 Our values
Courage, commitment and credibility are Kvinna till Kvinna’s core values. They determine how we act and
communicate.

    • Courage: We partner with women human rights defenders who dare to challenge social structures that
      violate women’s rights and opportunities. Together, we tackle contentious issues in difficult contexts and
      strive for justice and equality for all women, because we know that greater equality reduces the risk of
      conflict reoccurring.

    • Commitment: We are committed to creating an equal world and know that a strong feminist and women’s
      rights movement is key to building equality. We establish close, long-term relationships with our partner
      organisations in conflict-affected contexts, because we know that achieving structural change by addressing
      the root causes of gender inequality takes time. Our commitment and long-term approach are what 		
      makes us stand out.

    • Credibility: We endeavour to uphold the highest level of professionalism and take our responsibility
      seriously towards each other and the women human rights defenders we work with. We aim to keep 		
      working together with our partners and allies to expand and share our knowledge and expertise, as this
      makes both us and our partners more relevant, credible and legitimate actors in the communities and
      areas we work in.


1.2 Our vision and mandate
Our long-term vision for the future is:


      A world of peace and justice
      in which women have equal
      rights, power and opportunities.


1. We define “feminist peace” as an approach to peace and security that seeks to address the root causes of structural violence and power inequalities,
   while simultaneously working towards gender equality.


                                                                                 4
                              THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




Our mandate is:

   1. To conduct projects in regions of war and conflict that promote women’s self-reliance, self-esteem, 		
      psychosocial and/or physical health, or that contribute to promoting women’s participation in building
      a democratic civil society.

   2. To foster studies and research on the effects of war and armed conflict on women, including in
      collaboration with others.

   3. To publicise facts and information about the effects of war and build public support for peaceful
      conflict-resolution through civil methods.


1.3 Where we work
Kvinna till Kvinna is an international non-governmental organisation that was founded in Sweden. Today, we
have offices around the world in conflict-affected contexts, plus an advocacy office in Brussels. We currently
work in Europe, the Middle East and North Africa (MENA region), the South Caucasus and sub-Saharan Africa.
Our staff has unique knowledge and expertise of the contexts we operate in. We use the term “conflict-affected”
to refer to a variety of conflict situations at different stages, with varying degrees and types of violence—from
open warfare or sporadic altercations in unresolved conflicts to stable post-conflict situations with ongoing
peacebuilding efforts. We work in both conflict-affected and humanitarian contexts, supporting women’s rights
and peace building with a long-term perspective. We strive to be a flexible and reliable partner for women’s rights
organisations in these contexts, supporting them to adapt their work to the state of conflict and emergencies.




                                                         5
                                    THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




   2 KVINNA TILL KVINNA’S JOURNEY


            Our work starts in 1993, when
     reports reach Sweden of mass rapes in            1993
             the wars in Former Yugoslavia.

                                                                            We send 20,000 “women’s parcels” to
                                                                 1994       women in Tuzla.

     Kvinna till Kvinna opens its first office in
                       the Balkans, in Croatia.
                                                      1995
                                                                            Our mobile healthcare clinic in Bosnia
                                                                 1996       and Herzegovina reaches 7,000 women
                                                                            and 5,000 children.
    We publish the first ever gender analysis
        of a peace process ‘Engendering the
      Peace Process’. The Women, Peace and
                                                      2000
         Security Resolution 1325 is adopted.
                                                                            We open our first office in the Middle
                                                                 2001       East, in Jerusalem.
      We receive the Right Livelihood Award
       —the “Alternative Nobel Peace Prize”
            and open an office in the South
                                                      2002
                        Caucasus, in Tbilisi.
                                                                            On our tenth anniversary, we have
                                                                 2003       25 employees and work in the Balkans,
                                                                            Middle East and South Caucasus.
      We publish ‘Insist, Resist, Persist, Exist’,
        our first report on the backlash that         2008
       women human rights defenders face.                                   We start working in the Democratic
                                                                            Republic of the Congo and produce
                                                                 2009       our first documentary, ‘Women’s War’,
                                                                            on supporting women victims of sexual
                                                                            violence in conflict.
               We open an office in Monrovia
                   —our first office in Africa.
                                                      2011

                                                                            Our documentary ‘Six Days’ premieres;
                                                                 2013       it is a tribute to women’s rights activists.

        Our ‘Femdefenders’ report monitors
            the situation for women human             2014
                            rights defenders.
                                                                            We publish ‘Suffocating The Movement’
                                                                 2018       our second report on the backlash
                                                                            women human rights defenders face.
   We launch our ‘Fierce and Furious’ report
 on anti-gender movements and a report on             2019
    how to best support feminist organising.
                                                                            We report on how covid-19 has led to a
                                                                 2020       global increase on GBV and call for women’s
                                                                            inclusion in countries’ covid-19 responses.
      Together, about 135 Kvinna till Kvinna
employees in 13 offices support 150 women’s           2022
        rights organisations in 20 countries.




                                                             6
                                          THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




3 GLOBAL CONTEXT
Increasing conflict, rising nationalism, the climate crisis and a complex interplay between global and local power
structures are changing the world we live in. Many countries, particularly in the global North, as well as the aid
sector itself, are struggling to come to terms with a history of colonialism and racism and continuing structural
racial inequalities. Anti-gender movements embody the increasing resistance to gender equality, while safe
spaces for women human rights defenders continue to shrink. The result is a deterioration of women’s security
and human security.

The covid-19 pandemic has affected all aspects of society. It has exacerbated economic gender inequalities,
pushed more women into poverty, increased the amount of unpaid work that women perform, and led to
polarisation and destabilising conspiracy theories. Lockdowns and other restrictions have created a “shadow
pandemic” of gender-based violence, including domestic violence. International financial institutions have
gained even more power and influence through various recovery packages, but usually pay little or no attention
to women’s rights.

The world has also seen a rise in conflict, which in turn has led to increased migration, feminised poverty and
violence against women. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has altered the European security order, increasing
tensions across the region and raising the spectre of nuclear war. The conflict will likely have a long-term effect
on world politics and lead to increased militarisation and nationalism in the years to come.

Despite these challenges, women’s rights organisations and women human right defenders continue to work
for equality, peace and human rights.


3.1 Conflict, militarisation and climate change
Violent conflicts and instability often exacerbate existing inequalities and put women, girls and gender non-
conforming individuals at greater risk of human rights violations. Militarism is deeply connected to patriarchal
values and destructive gender norms and correlates with greater gender inequalities.2 The Global Peace Index
shows that peacefulness in the world has been decreasing for almost a decade, while military expenditure has
risen.3 More state-based conflicts have broken out, especially ones involving regional or global powers,4 which
can make it more difficult to negotiate a resolution of the conflict.5 This in turn has led to a range of negative
consequences, including record-high forced displacement,6 and other protracted effects, that affect women in
particular.7

Over the past two decades, the world has started to pay more attention to the gendered aspects of (the aftermath
of) war and conflict. This has improved understanding of the link between gender inequality and peace and security.
The Women, Peace and Security (WPS) Agenda has contributed to this shift in international norms, which has
influenced national and international policy. But full implementation of the Agenda is still a long way off, both
in terms of funding and in terms of realising its full potential as a transformative tool to achieve sustainable and
feminist peace.

Meanwhile, the climate crisis is having a disastrous impact on the environment, with consequences for the
health, food security and livelihoods of many women. When resources such as water and firewood become
scarcer, women have to spend more time on unpaid care/household work, which leaves them with fewer op-
portunities to engage in society. Climate change also affects the dynamics of ongoing conflicts and increases the
risk of new conflicts breaking out. This makes it more difficult to build and sustain peace, and can lead to forced
migration, which in turn puts women at risk of rape and sexual violence and restricts their access to SRHR.
Finally, the climate crisis also tends to exacerbate poverty, which leaves women and girls vulnerable to trafficking
and sexual exploitation. All of this makes it more difficult for women to fully enjoy their human rights.



2. The Consortium on Gender, Security and Human Rights: ‘The Impact of Militarization on Gender Inequality and Female Labor Force Participation’ (link).
   Peace Research Institute Oslo (PRIO): ‘How Should We Understand Patterns of Recurring Conflict?’ (link).
3. Global Peace Index.
4. PRIO: ‘Conflict Trends: A Global Overview, 1946–2019’ (link).
5. PRIO: ‘New Conflict Data Reveals More Conflicts but Fewer Killed’. (4 Jun 2019) (link). Peace Research Institute Oslo (PRIO): ‘How Should We Understand Patterns
   of Recurring Conflict?’ (link). PRIO and European Union Institute for Security Studies (EUISS)
6. UNHCR: ‘Forced Displacement in 2020’ (link).
7. Humanity & Inclusion, Human Rights Watch, International Disability Alliance, Women Enabled International and the Women’s Refugee Commission: ‘Joint submission
   on promoting and protecting the human rights of women and girls in conflict and post-conflict situations on the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of Security
   Council resolution 1325’ (2 April 2021) (link).


                                                                                 7
                                             THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




3.2 Economic and political rights and gender justice
The international human rights framework clearly indicates that discrimination against women violates the
principles of equal rights and respect for human dignity. CEDAW states that women have the right to participate
“in the political, social, economic and cultural life of their countries on equal terms with men”.

And yet, women across the globe are still largely excluded from economic and political decision-making, as
power structures remain dominated by men.8 In terms of political participation, inequalities and discrimination
range from women not even having the legal right to participate in the democratic process, to having rights on
paper but in practice still struggling to participate in political life in a meaningful and equal way. Discriminatory
laws, practices, attitudes and gender stereotypes, low levels of education and a lack of economic means are
some of the barriers to women’s political participation. In many parts of the world, women risk being harassed
and threatened if or when they challenge political power structures. In high-stakes conflicts, women’s political
participation and leadership (whether at the local or national level) tends to be even lower than the already
unequal global average.9 Women’s participation is particularly low in conflict-resolution and peace processes.10

For Kvinna till Kvinna, it is imperative that more women participate in peace negotiations, because sustainable
peace reflects the needs and wishes of all citizens and all members of the community. For this to happen, it is
crucial that more women participate in political decision-making on all levels. Conflict-resolution, peace negotia-
tions and peacebuilding all require sound and representative political decision-making. There can be no sustaina-
ble peace if women are excluded from political life.

Women have far fewer economic rights than men11 and restricted access to and control over resources.12 Globally,
less than half of women participate in the labour force.13 When women do enter the (in)formal labour market,
gender hierarchies and social norms result in low salaries, poor working conditions and informal positions that
grant little security.14 In times of conflict, economic discrimination and barriers to women’s economic rights are
accentuated. And because climate change has made resources scarcer, women are now at greater risk of losing
their livelihoods—especially women who face discrimination on multiple fronts, for example because they are
racially discriminated, disabled or part of an underprivileged national minority, because they identify as LGBTQI+
or because they were forced to migrate.

Today, development agencies and international financial institutions tend to focus on “smart economics”15,
economic growth and employment of women. But this ignores the fundamental macroeconomic gender
inequalities that stem from women having to disproportionately shoulder the unpaid burden of household and
care work. Research shows that economic growth does not necessarily lead to gender equality, but there is
clear evidence that gender equality increases economic growth.16

In conflict-affected contexts with weak institutions, women’s economic exclusion tends to be exacerbated. As
the UN Secretary-General’s report on Women, Peace and Security stated in 2021, “the international community’s
support to women is focused on microenterprises and microcredit, while large-scale reconstruction after
conflict is dominated by men and overwhelmingly benefits men”.17 Recovery and reconstruction programmes
should always include a gender analysis, so they can address the root causes of gender inequality. Important
issues include women’s right to inherit, their right to own land, unpaid care work, employment, and welfare.

As long as women do not have equal economic rights (including housing, land and property rights) and as long
as access to the labour market, financial services and social protection remains unequal, women will not be
free to decide over their own lives, will struggle to engage in politics, will remain at greater risk of gender based
violence and exploitation, and will be less likely to assume leadership roles that would allow them to contribute
to community-building and peacebuilding efforts.18

 8. According to the World Economic Forum, it will take 95 years to close the political gender gap (Salyer and Cann 2019). International IDEA’s 2019 Global State of Democracy
    Index shows that, at the current rate, it will take another 48 years for parliaments to reach gender parity. IDEA, 2021: ‘The Role of Political Parties on Women’s
    Representation and Participation’ (link).
 9. UN Women: ‘Facts and figures: Women, peace, and security’ (link).
10. Between 1992 and 2019, women constituted, on average, 13 per cent of negotiators and 6 per cent of both mediators and signatories in major peace processes around
    the world. Council on Foreign Relations: ‘Women’s Participation in Peace Processes’ (link).
11. Women only have 75% of the economic rights that men enjoy. The World Bank, 2020: ‘Women, Business and the Law’, p.1.
12. Globally, only 15% of landowners are women. Stand For Her Land: ‘Women’s Land Rights’ (link).
13. ILO: ‘The Gender Gap in Employment’ (link).
14. 92% of working women in developing countries have informal jobs. ILO, 2019: ‘Women and Men in the Informal Economy – Statistical Brief’, p.5.
15. “Smart economics”, according to the World Bank, is an approach that defines gender equality as an integral part of economic development and aims to spur
    development through investing more efficiently in women and girls. UNESCWA. (link).
16. Grantham, Dowie and de Haan (eds): ‘Women’s Economic Empowerment: Insights from Africa and South Asia’. Routledge, 2021.
17. UN, 2020: ‘Women and peace and security: report of the Secretary-General’ (link).
18. Kvinna till Kvinna, 2021: ‘Challenging The Norm’ (link) and ’A Right, Not A Gift’ (link).


                                                                                       8
                                           THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




3.3 Gender based violence and sexual and reproductive health and rights
Gender-based violence (GBV) remains a serious obstacle to gender equality and is a violation of human
rights. One in three women have experienced physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner or sexual
violence by a non-partner in their lifetime.19 Globally, intimate partner violence is the most common form of
gender-based violence. Most gender-based violence is perpetrated by men and targets women and girls. The
cumulative effects that multiple, intersecting forms of discrimination have on marginalised women and girls
(including women and girls with a disability or gender non-conforming and LGBTQI+ persons) put them at
particular risk of GBV. When violence is committed against women and girls because of their gender, women’s
ability to participate in and contribute to social, economic and political life is severely hampered. Although GBV
legislation has improved in most parts of the world in the past few decades,20 most of the countries we work in
still lack comprehensive GBV legislation or do not fully implement and/or enforce existing legislation.

In recent years, GBV and sexual harassment in the workplace and the public sphere have received more attention,
in part due to the MeToo movement and numerous high-level cases of sexual exploitation, abuse and sextortion.21
At the same time, digitalisation has led to new forms of GBV; there is still a lack of knowledge of and legislation
on how to address such online forms of violence. GBV tends to increase in conflict situations, in the form of
militarised violence, non-partner sexual violence, intimate partner violence and child/forced marriage.22 Even
during the global pandemic systemic conflict-related sexual violence has been fuelled due to rising inequality,
increased militarisation and reduced civic space among other factors.23 In post-conflict societies, prevalence of
GBV tends to remain high, with GBV having become normalised and perpetrators often enjoying impunity for
conflict-related sexual violence. This is in spite of the international community’s clear legal framework, which
acknowledges that sexual violence can be a tool for genocide and a crime against humanity.24

Sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) encompass the rights of all human beings to decide over
their own bodies, have healthy social relations and good reproductive health, and express their gender identity
and sexual orientation without having to face violence or discrimination. Full SRHR are fundamental prerequisites
for gender equality and are key to women’s ability to take part in social, economic and political life. Today,
many of the world’s young women and girls, especially the poorest and most vulnerable ones, lack access to
comprehensive sex education, modern contraceptives, menstrual and maternal healthcare, and safe and legal
abortions. When women cannot control their own bodies, their health and the size of their families, they are
simultaneously denied control over their education, income and future.

In times of crisis and conflict, the interruption of basic health services tends to put women in a vulnerable position.
Unattended births, a lack of contraceptives, unsafe abortions, HIV and AIDS are some of the most serious
threats to women in conflict and crisis. A third of all maternal mortality cases occur in crisis- and conflict-affected
regions, where already fragile healthcare systems suddenly face additional strain. Conflict also heightens the
risk of child marriage, trafficking, rape and sexual violence.25

Growing anti-gender movements around the world have been mobilising to support traditional values and
target SRHR and anti-GBV efforts. This undermines existing legislation and threatens the advancement of SRHR/
GBV policies and legislation. Abortion, LGBTQI+ rights and harmful traditional practices are often the most con-
troversial topics to address. Coupled with a rise in nationalism, authoritarianism and right-wing extremism, this
trend has limited women’s rights organisations’ ability to act and demand change. Today, they often struggle to
even maintain the status quo—the result of decades of hard work.




19. WHO, 2021: ‘Devastatingly perverse: 1 in 3 women globally experience violence’ (link).
20. This is partly thanks to the 2011 Istanbul Convention.
21. ILO, 2019: Convention on Violence and Harassment.
22. Murphy, M. et al, 2020: ‘What works to prevent violence against women and girls in conflict: Synthesis Brief.’
23. UN Security Council, 2022: ’Conflict-related sexual violence: Report of the Secretary-General’ (link).
24. As reflected by the adoption of the Rome Statutes in 1998 and the establishment of the International Criminal Court in 2002.
25. Murphy, M. et al, 2020: ‘What works to prevent violence against women and girls in conflict: Synthesis Brief.’


                                                                                  9
                              THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




3.4 Feminist movement-building and shrinking civic space
Before covid-19, women human right defenders in countries like Iraq, Belarus, Lebanon and the USA took to the
streets to protest against misgovernance, corruption, poverty, inequality, racial discrimination and the backlash
against SRHR. The collaboration between feminist movements and other social justice movements was a
reminder of the way in which different kinds of oppression intersect and of the importance of analysing and
addressing them together.

But we have witnessed countless ways in which space for civil society has been shrinking—a development
that tends to worsen during conflict. Women human rights defenders are subjected to ever more (threats of)
violence, hatred, and verbal abuse, which makes it riskier for them to keep up their efforts. Increased admin-
istrative burdens and public restrictions on civil society’s work have also affected feminist movements. The
lack of funding for women rights organisations is a major barrier to safeguarding women’s rights and gender
equality and countering the anti-gender movement. Digital spaces have fundamentally affected feminist move-
ment-building, with women increasingly organising online. But the glaringly unequal access to the internet has
widened the digital divide. And while the internet is a transformative space that offers new opportunities to net-
work across borders, campaign and build movements, it also reproduces the same inequalities that women face
offline. Much of the violence and hatred that women human rights defenders are subjected to occurs online.
We are also seeing an increase in government surveillance through digital monitoring systems. All of this has
led to a growing discussion on the need for safe digital spaces for the feminist movement.




                                                                                                                     Photo: Fadi Dahabreh




                                                        10
                                         THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




         4 OUR FUTURE DIRECTION
         4.1 Our theory of change
         Based on the main challenges identified to fully realising women’s equal rights, power and opportunities we
         have developed our global Theory of Change (ToC). Our ToC underpins our strategy for 2023–2029, including
         the areas of change we will strive to make a difference in alongside our partners. Our ToC describes the way we
         believe our contribution (as well as that of our partners) will create the changes we want to see.



      VISION            A WORLD OF PEACE AND JUSTICE IN WHICH WOMEN HAVE EQUAL RIGHTS, POWER AND OPPORTUNITIES



                          FEMINIST                      POLITICAL                         GBV &                            FEMINIST
                          PEACE                         & ECONOMIC                        SRHR                             MOVEMENTS
                                                        RIGHTS

                                 Women are                    Women have                   Gender based violence             Inclusive feminist
    THEMATIC
                           influential in building          equal political and           is eliminated and sexual          movements transform
   CHANGE AREA
                               feminist peace                economic rights              and reproductive health              unequal power
                                                                                           and rights are fulfilled              structures
                            Women participate            Women participate fully
                           meaningfully in conflict      and have equal opportu-             Legal frameworks,              Increased diversity and
                            transformation and           nities at all levels to lead      policies and protection           inclusivity within femi-
                               peace building               and make decisions            mechanisms on GBV and             nist and women’s rights
    LONG TERM                                                                             SRHR are improved and                   movements
                           Women access justice             Women participate                   implemented
      GOALS
                            and shape justice            effectively in political life                                       Feminist voices are
                              frameworks                                                     Women and girls can            amplified through joint
                                                            Barriers to women’s             safely access services           action and coalition
                          Women have the agency             economic rights and             and justice at all levels               building
                          to shape the agenda for         justice including access
                          women, peace & security,           to and control over           GBV is prevented and              Feminist movements
                            and peace processes           resources are removed           SRHR promoted through             are secure, have ample
                                                                                           changing social norms            resources and counter
                                                                                               and attitudes                    shrinking space




                          Through collective work       • Countering the backlash against gender equality
                          we strengthen women’s         • Equalising power structures and distribution of resources
                          rights and create long-       • Strengthening women’s participation in decision making spaces
  THE COLLECTIVE
                          term impact on societies
  CONTRIBUTION                                          • Improving services and support for women
                          by…
                                                        • Changing harmful social norms
                                                        • Influencing duty-bearers and other stakeholders for progressive laws and policies




                                  Sustainable &                              Diverse movements                              Alliance-building
    OUTCOME OF             strengthened organisations                         Access to networks                        Evidence-based research
KVINNA TILL KVINNA’S
                               Access to resources                        Collaborations, solidarity                     Awareness & attention
   CONTRIBUTION
                             Learning & inspiration                             & joint action                             to women’s rights



                            • Long-term support                           • Safe spaces                                 • Advocacy & communication
KVINNA TILL KVINNA’S
                            • Flexible funding                            • Inclusive networking                        • Training
 THREE AVENUES OF
   CONTRIBUTION             • Organisational                              • Facilitating connections                    • Studies & research
                              strengthening




                                     PARTNER-                                     MOVEMENT                                    AMPLIFYING
                                       SHIPS                                      BUILDING                                      VOICES




     CONTEXT                                               Kvinna till Kvinna works in conflict affected areas


                                                                            11
                             THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




                                                                                                                 Photo: William Edjeborg
4.2 Our areas of change
Lasting structural change does not happen overnight: it happens through a complex series of intentional and
unintentional events. Since 1993, we have worked to challenge and change norms in conflict-affected areas,
drawing on our contextual and thematic knowledge and strong partnerships to determine how and when to
push for structural change and support local agency. We do not operate in a vacuum: creating lasting change
is a collective, multifaceted effort.

Looking back on our work during the previous strategy period and assessing global trends and the contexts
we work in, we identified four long-term areas of change for 2023–2029 that will thematically guide our work.
They will pave the way for a set of structural changes that we and our partners can contribute to, and which
we believe are fundamental to achieving feminist peace and fulfilling the rights of all women, regardless of
who they are.


                                   POLITICAL &                                               FEMINIST
     FEMINIST PEACE                                               GBV & SRHR
                                ECONOMIC RIGHTS                                             MOVEMENTS


         Women are                 Women have                Gender-based violence       Diverse and inclusive
   influential in building       equal political and        is eliminated and sexual     feminist movements
       feminist peace             economic rights           and reproductive health       transform unequal
                                                             and rights are fulfilled      power structures




Below, we present these four areas of change and explain how we will aim to achieve our long-term goals in
each of them. Regional strategies in the regions we work in will translate our four global areas of change to
reflect each region’s specific context and needs.




                                                       12
                               THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




CHANGE AREA 1


WOMEN ARE INFLUENTIAL IN
BUILDING FEMINIST PEACE


      Long-term goals:
      • Women meaningfully participate in conflict-transformation and peacebuilding in their societies
      • Women access justice and shape justice frameworks
      • Women have the agency to shape the WPS agenda and peace processes




Kvinna till Kvinna works towards a feminist peace, because we believe peace and comprehensive security for
all requires us to both address the root causes of structural violence and power inequalities, and advance
gender equality.

During this strategy period, we will continue to encourage our partners and women to shape, participate in
and lead peacebuilding efforts. We will focus on understanding and addressing the interconnected and mutually
reinforcing structural barriers and power barriers that stand in the way of peace, security and equality. We
believe peace comes about by promoting women’s meaningful participation in conflict-prevention and -trans-
formation and women’s influence over peace processes and politics. We do not just work to contain violence:
we also focus on conflict-prevention, conflict-resolution, social cohesion, resilience and post-conflict reconstruction.
We do so by calling for greater attention to women’s lived experiences of the root causes of conflict and injustice.

With our partners, we will keep supporting women as they mediate and negotiate conflicts, from the community
level to the regional level. We will implement measures to reduce and prevent violent conflict, working for long-
term structural change.

Our feminist peacebuilding is guided by the multiple layers of injustice and unequal power relations that exist
in the conflict-affected countries we work in. That is why we promote justice and accountability. We will stand
by our partners as they address current and past injustices and support them in gaining access to and shaping
justice mechanisms and frameworks.

We advocate the implementation of the Women, Peace and Security (WPS) Agenda and call for increased fund-
ing for it. But the WPS Agenda is only the beginning: we envision a world of feminist peace, with a greater focus
on power inequalities and other systemic barriers to peace and security; decreased militarisation and fewer arms;
prevention made a higher priority; and increased support for peace and local agents of change.




                We call for women’s meaningful participation,
                leadership and perspectives in peacebuilding processes,
                which make societies more peaceful, just and equal.




                                                           13
                              THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




CHANGE AREA 2


WOMEN HAVE EQUAL POLITICAL
AND ECONOMIC RIGHTS


     Long-term goals:
   CHANGE AREA 2: WOMEN HAVE EQUAL POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RIGHTS
     • Women participate fully at all levels of leadership and decision-making
     • Women effectively participate in political life
     • Barriers to women’s economic rights and justice (including access to and control over resources)
       are removed




Kvinna till Kvinna will continue to promote women’s political and economic rights as two closely interlinked
areas. Low participation in political decision-making curtails women’s ability to influence laws and policies that
affect them—including economic policies. Similarly, women’s lack of access to resources and economic rights
hampers their ability to partake in decision-making, influence decisions that impact them, escape poverty and
leave abusive relationships. Advancing women’s political and economic rights require us to challenge traditional
power structures and discriminatory laws, policies and gender norms that hinder women’s participation.

With our partners, we will remove barriers to women’s full, effective and equal participation in society. We will
promote women’s political participation by raising awareness and challenging the traditional values and power
structures that prevent women from engaging in politics, elections and other decision-making spaces. We want
women to be leaders at the local, national, regional and global levels, including in national parliaments, village
councils and local committees or other types of community-engagement public institutions.

Together with our partners, we will address barriers to women’s economic rights and justice. We will promote
their access to and control over resources like land (for example through gender budgeting); advocate a reduction
and redistribution of unpaid care work (for example by strengthening social protection); and promote income
and livelihood opportunities for women via the labour market.

International financial institutions are powerful, influential actors that set rules and norms for the global econ-
omy, including for post-conflict economic recovery. We will collaborate with partners who work with women’s
economic rights, networking, learning from and supporting each other. Together, we will contribute to economic
equality and call on international financial institutions to respect women’s rights.




                We call for women’s effective and equal participation in political and
                economic decision-making at all levels, as well as in economic reforms and
                post-conflict economic reconstruction plans. We call for economic gender
                justice and for women’s equal access to and control over resources.




                                                         14
                                       KVINNA TILL KVINNA STRATEGY 2023–2028




CHANGE AREA 3


GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE IS
ELIMINATED AND SEXUAL AND
REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH AND
RIGHTS ARE FULFILLED


     Long-term goals:
     • Legal frameworks, protection mechanisms and policies on GBV and SRHR are improved
       and implemented
     • Women and girls can safely access services and justice at all levels
     • GBV is prevented and SRHR promoted by changing attitudes, behaviours and social norms




In times of crisis and conflict, all forms of GBV increase and women and girls often find themselves in vulnerable
situations as basic health services are interrupted. That is why we will work with our partners to prevent and
end GBV and to promote SRHR in conflict-affected areas. We will use a holistic approach: encouraging our part-
ners to both prevent GBV and improve access to services for victims/survivors. We believe that SRHR and the
right to live a life free from violence are fundamental rights: women and girls should be able to decide over their
own bodies and lives and participate in and contribute to social, economic and political life.

In our programme countries, we will continue to work with partner organisations and networks to improve legal
frameworks, policies and protection mechanisms.

In terms of services for victims/survivors, we will support our partners’ shelter work, their provision of psycho-
social support and legal aid, and their advocacy for improved access to justice. We will also support our partners
as they facilitate access to existing SRHR services and improve the quality of those services or call for additional
services when there is a gap.

In terms of prevention and changing of attitudes, behaviours and social norms, we will keep supporting our
partners’ awareness-raising, their educational and community-based SRHR initiatives and their efforts to safe-
guard women’s right to a life free from GBV. We will do so through an intersectional and gender-transformative
approach.

We will make sure our partners (within and across different contexts) regularly get the opportunity to network
and share best practices with each other, so they may develop their GBV/SRHR knowledge and methods. We will
also promote the use of psychosocial support systems and self-care for staff at our partner organisations who
work on GBV and SRHR.




                We advocate for the right of all women and girls to a life free from violence
                and call for their sexual and reproductive health and rights and bodily
                integrity and autonomy to be respected in conflict-affected contexts.




                                                         15
                                             THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




CHANGE AREA 4


DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE FEMINIST
MOVEMENTS TRANSFORM
UNEQUAL POWER STRUCTURES


        Long-term goals:
        • Feminist and women’s rights movements are more diverse and inclusive
        • Feminist voices are amplified through joint action and coalition-building
        • Feminist movements are secure, have ample resources and counter shrinking space




We know from research and experience that strong feminist and women’s rights movements are key to
strengthening, implementing and enforcing women’s rights legislation.26 Which is why, during this strategy
period, we want to help movements become more diverse and inclusive.27 This will require us to discuss and
understand who is heard and who is left out. We will bring new and more diverse actors together by providing
opportunities for them to meet and learn from each other. We will strengthen voices and solidarity within and
across movements. We will counteract fragmentation by encouraging joint action and coalition-building.

As we do so, we will face significant obstacles: shrinking civic space, anti-gender movements, nationalism and
counter-terrorism measures. We will continue to analyse and raise awareness of the conditions under which
women human rights defenders work, calling on key stakeholders to change these.

Security-wise, we have been supporting women human rights defenders and feminist activists for years as they
push back against violence. We will keep working to improve their protection: supporting our partners as they
analyse and manage risks; establishing physical and digital safe spaces in which they can meet, share experiences
and strategise; and finding safe ways to transfer funds to grassroots actors without putting them at risk.28

Burnout is a real threat for the women’s movement and can even be a security issue. Women human rights
defenders should have proper tools to manage stress. We will finetune our existing tools (such as the concept
of Integrated Security) and discuss this topic with our partners.

Limited funding is another major obstacle that makes movements less effective. We will join forces with like-
minded organisations to bring in more funding, and use our network to open doors for the movement so it can
influence decision-makers in turn.




                        We call for increased and tailored funding for feminist and women’s rights
                        movements to make them stronger, more diverse and more well-connected
                        and to maximise their potential to be influential and push back against
                        shrinking space.




26. Weldon, S. and Htun, M.: ‘Feminist Mobilisation and Progressive Policy Change’, 2013, p.231–247.
27. These could include e.g. (but not limited to) some of the following actors: LGBTQIA+ actors, inter-generational movement, or young women, women with disabilities,
    women refugees and women working for climate justice activists.
28. In terms of digital spaces, we will discuss why digitalisation is important, how it can be an advocacy tool, how we can close the digital gap, and how we can use social
    media for change—all while staying safe.


                                                                                     16
                                          THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




         4.3 Contributing to change through three avenues
         We will achieve structural change in the above four areas of change through three different avenues: partnerships,
         supporting movements and amplifying voices.




                            • Long-term support                  • Safe spaces                      • Advocacy & communication
                            • Flexible funding                   • Inclusive networking             • Training
                            • Organisational                     • Facilitating connections         • Studies & research
                              strengthening



KVINNA TILL KVINNA’S
                                    PARTNER-                            MOVEMENT                           AMPLIFYING
 THREE AVENUES OF                   PARTNER-                            MOVEMENT                           AMPLIFYING
                                      SHIPS                              BUILDING                            VOICES
   CONTRIBUTION                       SHIPS                             BUILDING                             VOICES




                           IF we engage in long-term            IF we provide safe spaces and      IF we conduct relevant
                           support with women’s rights          opportunities for inclusive net-   research, train allies and
                           organisations (and other rele-       working, support movements         effectively communicate
                           vant partners), providing them       in managing risks, and if we       about our and partners’
                           with flexible funding, and           open doors to relevant spaces      work to raise awareness and
                           supporting their organisational      and actors for movements,          advocate changes in policy and
                           strengthening and strategy           networks and individuals.          legislation together with our
                           development.                                                            partners.




                           THEN partners will have              THEN feminist and women’s          THEN policies and interven-
                           greater knowledge of good            rights movements will become       tions on peacebuilding, wom-
                           practices and access to sys-         more diverse, have greater         en’s rights and gender equality
                           tems and resources, which will       access to networks and op-         will take women’s experiences
                           make them stronger and more          portunities to cooperate, have     and voices into account, and
                           influential, allowing them to        increased safety to strategies     practices will become more
                           demand power…                        and exchange and able to           gender sensitive…
                                                                manage risks…




                                  Sustainable &                    Inclusive movements                   Alliance-building
    OUTCOME OF             strengthened organisations               Access to networks              Evidence-based research
KVINNA TILL KVINNA’S
                               Access to resources               Collaborations, solidarity          Awareness & attention
   CONTRIBUTION
                              Learning & inspiration                   & joint action                  to women’s rights




                           BECAUSE partners have the            BECAUSE there will be more         BECAUSE there is stronger
                           opportunity to access learning       incentives and opportunities to    evidence (based on the voices
                           (in our areas of change) and         cooperate across divides and       of women in conflict areas)
                           support, which strengthens           foster a sense of solidarity.      and more awareness-raising
                           key parts of their organisation                                         efforts to influence analysis
                           and increases their expertise.                                          and policy changes effectively
                           and ability to work.                                                    sensitising policy makers.




                                                                   17
                                             THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




5 THE WAY WE WORK
5.1 Our approaches
To forge partnerships, support movements and amplify the voices of women human rights defenders, we will
continue to apply and develop five cross-cutting approaches, both internally and in our work with partners. This
will ensure we operate in an ethical, inclusive and climate- and environmentally sensitive way.




                                                                                                      CLIMATE-
            HUMAN                                                  INTER-
                                            CONFLICT-                                    ANTI-      AND ENVIRON-
            RIGHTS-                                              SECTIONAL
                                            SENSITIVE                                   RACIST       MENTALLY
             BASED                                                FEMINIST
                                                                                                      SENSITIVE




     • We will take a human rights-based approach (HRBA) to ensure our programming and partnerships follow
       international human rights standards and norms, thereby striving for equality, an end to discrimination
       and a transformation of power structures.

     • We will take a conflict-sensitive approach. We appreciate how important it is to understand the contexts
       we are working in and the way our interventions interact with these contexts, to minimise the negative
       and maximise the positive impact of our work. We will go the extra mile to integrate conflict-sensitivity
       and a commitment to Do No Harm into our decisions and programmes. We will conduct detailed analyses
       of conflict dynamics to monitor how these affect the impact of our work.

     • We will take an intersectional feminist approach to our work and our understanding of peace. We strive to
       be inclusive and to remember that women experience discrimination and privilege differently depending on
       intersecting factors such as disability, race, age, economic status, nationality and sexuality. We will approach
       gender justice in a comprehensive way—supporting allied movements for justice that are, for example,
       based on sexual orientation and/or gender identity.

     • We will take an anti-racist approach to our work to address racism and discrimination both internally with
       regard to the management and structure of our organisation as well as externally in our work with partners.29
       We will identify and oppose racism through concrete action at the organisational and structural level,
       including with donors. We will strive to be transparent about our efforts, learn from other women’s rights
       and civil society organisations working at the forefront of anti-racism, document our successes and failures,
       and encourage others to follow suit by leading by example.

     • Finally, we will take a climate and environmentally-sensitive approach. The nexus of gender, climate
       and conflict is crucial for us and for our partner organisations. Conflict and the inequalities that women
       and marginalised groups experience will be exacerbated by the effects of the environmental and climate
       crisis. We will set aside time and resources to minimise our environmental footprint and to increasingly
       promote climate and environmental justice. We will shine a spotlight on the structural causes of climate
       change and environmental degradation that increase GBV, affect women’s economic rights and harm SRHR.
       We will strive to be intentional when we support partners, conduct research and engage in advocacy in
       this area, so we may address its root causes together.


We will express these five approaches as we collaborate with partners and donors, and monitor and reflect
on our progress.




29. See, for example, Kvinna till Kvinna’s Code of Conduct.


                                                                      18
                                           THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




5.2 Our programmatic work and partnerships
Kvinna till Kvinna is part of the global feminist women’s movement and partners with a range of actors that
share our values, contribute to our strategic areas of change and help us achieve our goals. These actors range
from feminist activists and women human rights defenders, organisations and movements, other civil society
actors and grassroots community initiatives to businesses, institutional and private donors, international financial
institutions, philanthropists, academia, government authorities and the police and military. During 2023–2029,
we will continue to work with many of our longstanding partners. At the same time, we will explore new partner-
ships with different types of actors, look into new funding mechanisms and partnership models; and engage in
new ways of working—opening up our programme work in additional countries or providing remote support to
actors in times of need.

i) Partnerships for local agency and diverse movements: Women’s rights and feminist actors
Women’s rights organisations, women human rights defenders, feminist movements and networks working
in conflict-affected areas will continue to be our main civil society partners. During this strategy period, we will
also explore opportunities to partner with other types of civil society actors, to promote a diverse feminist and
women’s rights movement in an intersectional way.

Our partnerships with civil society actors will continue to take on different forms: from long-term partnerships
to short-term engagements; financial to technical support; as a door opener or advocacy partner. All our partner-
ships are guided by principles based on international standards30 and the abovementioned five cross-cutting
approaches.

ii) Government and other duty bearers
Where feasible and relevant, we will engage in dialogue with government actors and other informal duty bearers
and lobby them to influence the decisions they make that affect women’s lives and to counter tendencies of
shrinking civic space. We will continue to engage with local actors, not least through our international training
programmes with the police, military, lawmakers and civil society. We will also continue to provide expert advice
on women’s rights to governments and local authorities.

iii) More than money: Institutional and private donors and philanthropy
Kvinna till Kvinna regards donors as partners in development rather than mere sources of funding. We will
explore opportunities to strengthen women’s rights together and learn from each other. We aim to influence
donors by speaking up in the debate on WPS and women’s role in peacebuilding, shrinking space and the anti-
gender movement, and funding for women’s rights and feminist organising. We will also lobby for reasonable
donor requirements for ourselves and our partners, to ensure funding modalities are in line with our partners’
actual needs.

We aim to raise more funds from the private sector31 as this would allow us to be more agile and to flexibly
respond to the needs of women human rights defenders in the contexts we work in. We will also leverage our
global presence to promote networking opportunities for our partner organisations and open doors for them
to donors that promote women’s rights.

We will seek out partnerships with corporations, foundations and donors that share our feminist values and our
desire for lasting peace for everyone. We will engage with donors and partners that can play a vital role in improv-
ing the lives of women in conflict-affected areas, whether through corporate social responsibility initiatives, their
businesses or their economic or political influence.




30. These international standards include the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness (2005), the Accra Agenda for Action (2008), the Busan Outcome Document (2011),
    the Nairobi Outcome Document (2006) and the Istanbul Principles for CSO Development Effectiveness (2010).
31. See section 6.2 Funding.


                                                                                  19
                             THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




5.3 Our knowledge, studies and research
One of the guiding principles of our commitment to research and knowledge is that members of a movement
build knowledge and experience together. During this strategy period, we will increase our organisational
knowledge and intensify collaborations that are relevant to this strategy’s four areas of change and five
approaches. We will continue to facilitate exchanges, provide spaces to share knowledge, and offer our partner
organisations and teams trainings and products that are relevant to their work and to our own advocacy,
communication and fundraising efforts.

We want our research to inform our advocacy efforts and to initiate debates. Since our founding, we have carried
out and collaborated on studies and research, often based on stories told to us by women in conflict-affected
areas. Kvinna till Kvinna will continue to contribute to a wide range of studies on key issues that women human
rights defenders face in conflict-affected areas. As it takes considerable investment to collect and analyse data,
we will work to ensure our studies are disseminated and used as widely as possible. Our research work will
inform our programmatic and advocacy work and cross-pollinate the work of likeminded organisations.


5.4 Our communication and advocacy
Through our communication, we call for change, raise awareness of what we do, highlight the important work
women human rights defenders perform every day, and inspire more people to commit to our cause.

Our voice is one of our strongest assets, so we will continue to strategically strengthen our brand and increase
our reach. In Sweden, our aim is to be the country’s no.1 women’s rights fundraising organisation and to engage
the public in our global work for women’s rights. To do so, we will communicate in an impactful and targeted way
about our partners and the rightsholders they meet. Internationally, our aim is to become the go-to organisation
for institutional donors and decision-makers who want to make an impact on women’s rights across the world.

We will strengthen our communication and advocacy capacity at the regional level by investing in communication
expertise and in our staff’s knowledge on advocacy and information-sharing. We will design and implement
communication strategies for each of our programme countries to increase our visibility in the contexts we
work in. We will enhance our coordination at the global level to streamline and sync our regional communica-
tion efforts.

In our global advocacy, we will both amplify the messages of our partner organisations and to strengthen our
own voice. We will continue to support partners in their advocacy efforts, strengthen their advocacy capacity
and facilitate their engagement in global and regional advocacy initiatives. When it is relevant to do so, we will
advocate through and with feminist and women’s rights networks and coalitions. We will continue to work in
cross-regional and cross-country constellations (including through our advocacy office in Brussels) to strengthen
the link between our national, regional and global advocacy. We will continue to invest in evidence-based re-
search and policy development, to produce high-quality reports and communication materials that are relevant
to our target audiences.




                                                        20
                                          THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




                                                                                                                                                                   Photo: Sandra Simbakwira
6 IMPLEMENTING THE STRATEGY
6.1 Our organisational priorities
During 2023–2029, we will prioritise certain internal organisational developments to achieve our strategic goals.
This will support the implementation of this strategy, make our work as impactful as possible and help us remain
a relevant and knowledgeable partner.

During the previous strategy period, Kvinna till Kvinna expanded in terms of staff, partners and the number of
countries we work in.32 We opened four new offices (and closed two existing ones). We began to decentralise the
organisation to bridge the gap between our decision-making and our operations, and strengthened our capacities
in key areas such as finance, HR, method & development, fundraising, grants management and security & safety.

As we enter this new strategy period, we have offices in 14 countries.33 The majority of our staff work outside
of Sweden. Kvinna till Kvinna’s regional teams all have their own strategies, which reflect this global strategy and
provide detailed guidance on our work in each respective region. Each of our offices and departments is essential
to Kvinna to Kvinna. Moving forward, we will continue to work on becoming a more well-connected, global
organisation. We will develop our internal decision-making structures, improve our operational systems in our
programme countries and strive to be a more balanced organisation, in line with our feminist and anti-racist
approaches. Our focus will be on balanced and strategic growth that is in line with our mandate. We will prioritise
looking into new ways of working with women human rights defenders, organisations and movements.34

Covid-19 taught us a great deal about online and remote ways of working. We will take those lessons with us as
we explore how to remain relevant in conflict-affected countries we are not physically present in. The pandemic
also taught us that we need to keep scaling up our digitalisation efforts and use digital tools to network across
borders, support movements, share knowledge, advocate, raise funds effectively and communicate with the public.

In an era of misinformation, being a well-known and trustworthy brand is more important than ever, both in
Sweden and internationally. That is why we will intensify our communication efforts in our programme countries.




32. Between 2016 and 2021, we went from employing 93 to 132 staff members. In terms of partnerships too, we expanded: in 2021, we had 150 partner organisations,
    whereas in 2016 we partnered with 108 organisations.
33. Sweden, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Georgia, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, North Macedonia, Palestine & Israel,
    Rwanda, Serbia and Tunisia.
34. See also Section 2 Chapter 5.


                                                                                21
                                       THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




Kvinna till Kvinna will also work even harder to raise funds from and awareness among the Swedish general
public and to build alliances with the corporate and public sector, as donations from the public and from corpo-
rations allow us to be more flexible and agile. This will also bring us closer to our goal of being the no.1 women’s
rights fundraising organisation in Sweden.

In terms of studies and research,35 we will maintain our current level of efforts, conducting a select number of
prioritised studies each year, in areas in which we and our partners can contribute with our voice and expertise.


6.2 Funding
Kvinna till Kvinna’s work to empower women in conflict regions is made possible by donations and grants. Since
our founding, we have mainly been financed by grants from bilateral and multilateral institutional donors, with
the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) as our main donor.

During the previous strategy period, one of our organisational goals was to diversify our donor portfolio and
broaden our fundraising base. We successfully did so: we strengthened our identity as a fundraising organisation;
increased the share of funds raised from individuals and companies in Sweden; and raised more institutional
funding in the regions we operate in. We did learn, however, that contextual developments such as a democratic
backlash or changes in donor governments can very easily impact funding for women’s rights.

Raising funds from the general public remains a necessity going forward, as we want to strengthen our autonomy
and our ability to respond to unforeseen crises and wars. In some cases, institutional donors also require we
raise funds from the public as a co-financing contribution.

Kvinna till Kvinna’s two fundraising priorities for 2023–2029 are to raise more funds from the Swedish general
public and to diversify our institutional fundraising.




                                                                                                                       Photo: Katya Moskalyuk




35. See also Section 3 of Chapter 5.


                                                                22
                                          THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




6.3 Risk-management, safety and security
We aim to ensure that all our work in conflict affected areas is conducted in a safe and risk aware way, based
on our deep knowledge of the contexts in which we operate. To continuously account for the unexpected, our
systems for risk management, safety and security need to be strong, fit for purpose and able to support staff
and partners in their work.

In line with ISO standards36, we identify all risks related to our goals and, when necessary, adjust them. Risks are
divided into five categories: safety and security, staff, finance, trademark and core activities. During this strategy
period we improve our ability to identify opportunities and threats and effectively allocate and use resources
for risk management.

There is an increased risk of mis- and dis-information affecting the NGO community in the contexts in which we
work37 and as an organisation we have witnessed an increased in reported digital security incidents. It is therefore
crucial for us to ensure adequate digital security for ourselves and partners and this requires a long-term invest-
ment. Our capacity to safely handle personal data and protect the digital security of our staff, partners and
donors remains a priority for Kvinna till Kvinna.

It is essential that our incident reporting systems highlight the dangers that staff and partners face in a context
of a shrinking space for women human rights defenders in order to protect their safety. As part of our risk-
management efforts and safety and security assessments, we have systematically been collecting and record-
ing incident reports since 2018, through our Incident Reporting & Management Standard Operating Procedure
(SOP), which facilitates and streamlines our management of incidents and crises. We will continue doing this
during the coming strategy phase.

We will work to strengthen our and our partners’ capacity to report incidents to better mitigate risks. These
reports will also feed into our research of the effects of war and armed conflict on women and improve our
insight into the security and safety situation for our partner organisations.


6.4 Monitoring for social change
Civil society organisations today are under a lot of pressure to report positive changes. For women rights
organisations, this is a challenge, as progress is usually followed by backlash. Interventions are often movement-
based and/or designed to deal with the structural causes of gender inequality: addressing such issues takes
time and can rarely be measured linearly.

We see monitoring as a learning process that allows us to track our contribution to change. Monitoring is essential:
it safeguards our accountability to our partners, our donors and our cause, and advances our individual and
collective learning and adaptiveness.

During this strategy period, we will draw on our 30 years of experience of working with women’s movements in
conflict-affected areas to establish best practices and to strengthen our collective capacity for advancing gender
equality. Doing so is a priority, because the challenges we face as we support women’s rights and women’s collec-
tive power for social justice are becoming more serious and complex at every level, and funding for this work
now comes with more rigid conditions and requirements.

We will invest in systems that will help us monitor our progress in every single area of this strategy, from the
partner level to the structural-change level. Monitoring and evaluating the implementation of our strategy will
serve three goals:

     1. Being a watchdog for women’s human rights in our four areas of change

     2. Analysing the work we set out to do during this strategy period

     3. Supporting organisational learning




36. ISO is an independent, non-governmental international organization with a membership of 167 national standards bodies. Through its members, it brings together
    experts to share knowledge and develop voluntary, consensus-based, market relevant International Standards for companies and NGOs.
37. For more information on security and the feminist movement, see area of change no. 4 in Chapter 4, Section 2.


                                                                                23
                                            THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




7 GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Anti-racism: The process of actively identifying and opposing racism. The goal is to challenge racism and actively
change policies, behaviours and beliefs that perpetuate racist ideas and actions. Anti-racism is about taking active
steps to eliminate racism at the individual, institutional and structural levels.

Conflict-affected: Refers to a variety of conflict situations at different stages, with varying degrees and types of violence
—from open warfare or sporadic altercations in unresolved conflicts to stable post-conflict situations with ongoing
peacebuilding efforts. Regardless of the situation we work in, we always strive for conflict sensitivity. Our presence on
the ground helps us do just that, because it allows us to interact closely with different actors across conflict divides.

Decolonisation: The process of deconstructing colonial ideologies that systemically positioned Western people,
thought and approaches as superior and as the norm, while indigenous and non-settler communities were seen as
inferior and ‘other’. This understanding of decolonialisation is rooted in a number of intersectional intellectual move-
ments, including indigenisation, post-colonialism, post-development theory, decoloniality and critical theory.

Economic justice: The existence of opportunities for meaningful work and employment and the dispensation of fair
rewards for the productive activities of individuals. We view economic justice as an aspect of social justice.38

Economic rights: The basic rights of control and ownership of tangible resources such as land, housing and property;
the right to inherit; and the right to access to the labour market, secure, safe and paid employment, education,
adequate health services and social security. Social reproduction and care work are closely connected to economic
rights, as they are mostly unpaid and prevent women from accessing the labour market. Economic gender equality is
a matter of women having the same economic rights as men.

Feminism: A movement to end sexism, sexist exploitation, discrimination and oppression, and to build an equal,
safe and just world.39

Feminist peace: An approach to peace and security that seeks to address the root causes of structural violence and
power inequalities, while simultaneously working towards gender equality.40

Gender-based violence (GBV): Harmful acts directed at an individual or group based on their gender. GBV is rooted
in gender inequality, harmful norms and abuse of power and is a brutal form of discrimination and a violation of fun-
damental rights. The term is primarily used to underscore the fact that structural, gender-based power differences put
women and girls at risk of multiple forms of violence. While women and girls disproportionately suffer from GBV, men
and boys can be targeted too. The term is also sometimes used to describe violence against the LGBTQI+ community
that is related to norms of masculinity, femininity and/or gender. GBV occurs everywhere: at home and in public, in
every society and country, regardless of social background.41

Gender justice: The full equality and equity between women and men in all spheres of life, resulting in women jointly,
and on an equal basis with men, defining and shaping the policies, structures and decisions that affect their lives and
society as a whole.42

Human rights-based approach: A conceptual framework for the progress of human development that is normatively
based on international human rights standards and operationally directed to promoting and protecting human rights.
A human rights-based approach seeks to analyse inequalities which lie at the heart of development problems and
redress discriminatory practices and unjust distributions of power that impede development progress and often result
in groups of people being left behind.43

International non-governmental organisation (INGO): A non-profit organisation that provides services in low-income
and lower-middle-income countries. INGOs are international because they raise funds in high-income countries but
utilise these funds in other countries. INGOs may operate in different sectors and work with a range of issues, including
economic development, humanitarian aid, environmental concerns and human rights.



38. UN, 2006: ‘The International Forum for Social Development: Social Justice in an Open World; The Role of the United Nations’.
39. This definition is inspired by the definition feminist professor and author bell hooks formulated in ‘Feminism is for everybody’ (2000).
40. During this strategy period, we will continue to develop our understanding of feminist peace as an approach that includes intersectionality, contextualised power
    analysis of social inequalities and movement-building to change those inequalities.
41. This definition is based on the UN Women (link) and also includes points from the Istanbul Convention (link). This definition is based on that of UN Women (link)
    and includes points from the Istanbul Convention (link).
42. Oxfam: ‘Gender justice and women’s rights’ (link).
43. UN Sustainable Development Group: ‘Human rights-based approach’ (link).


                                                                                   24
                                            THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




Intersectionality: A theoretical approach that recognises that different systems of oppression and discrimination are
interdependent and overlap, based on identities such as race, gender, class, sexual orientation, physical ability, etcetera.
The term was coined by professor Kimberlé Crenshaw in 1989.

LGBTQI+: A common abbreviation for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex communities. Many
LGBTQI+ people of all ages and in all world regions are exposed to human rights violations because of deeply embedded
homophobic and transphobic attitudes, often combined with a lack of adequate legal protection against discrimination
on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity.

Racism: Racism involves one group having the power to carry out systematic discrimination through society’s insti-
tutional policies and practices and by shaping the cultural beliefs and values that support those racist policies and
practices.44 Racism has many dimensions: it is both macro and micro, institutional and individual, and has conscious
and unconscious elements. Racism differs from racial prejudice, hatred or discrimination.

Sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR): Rights that enable all human beings to decide over their own
bodies, have healthy social relations and good reproductive health. SRHR relate to our most intimate relations, health
and family life. Everyone should have the right to decide if, when and how many children they want. Everyone should
be able to express their gender identity and sexual orientation without facing violence or discrimination. Access to
good maternal health, comprehensive sex education, affordable contraceptives and free and safe abortion are important
measures that enable sexual and reproductive health for all.45

Shrinking space: A situation of increasing criminalisation and bureaucratisation of human rights work, aimed at making
life difficult for and preventing the work of women human right defenders and civil society organisations. Authorities
may directly restrict freedom of association and assembly or use alternative legislation to harass and prosecute human
rights defenders.46

Women: We define women as all persons who identify as women.

Women’s economic empowerment (WEE): A transformational process that increases women’s power and influence,
enabling women to live safe, meaningful and fulfilled lives. Power is at the heart of this feminist interpretation: the
focus is on the relationship between economic markets and women’s autonomy, agency, choice and decision-making.47

Women Human Rights Defenders (WHRDs): Anyone (regardless of their gender) who works on gender issues or defends
women’s rights. The UN’s Declaration on Human Rights Defenders recognises the important role of human rights
defenders, including WHRDs, and outlines the rights of human rights defenders and the obligations of states. WHRDs
face the same types of risks any human rights defender faces, but as women, they are also the target of gender-specific
threats and violence. The reasons behind this are multi-faceted and complex, and depend on the specific context
the individual WHRD is working in. Often, the work of WHRDs is seen as challenging traditional notions of family and
gender roles in society, which can lead to hostility, stigmatisation and ostracism by the general population, authorities,
community leaders, faith-based groups, families and communities, who consider (the work of) WHRDs a threat to
society’s religion, honour or culture.48

Women’s rights organisation: A women-led organisation that is part of civil society and relatively free from state
influence, and that supports women to understand, access and demand their rights. Women’s rights organisations
may work to increase gender awareness and change norms and discriminatory practices by people of any gender.

Women’s rights movement: An organised set of actors pursuing a shared political agenda of change through collective
action.49




44. Racial Equity Tools Glossary (link).
45. This definition of SRHR is based on the Guttmacher-Lancet Commission’s definition (link).
46. Kvinna till Kvinna, 2018: ‘Suffocating The Movement: Shrinking Space for Women’s Rights’.
47. Kvinna till Kvinna, 2021: Position paper Economic Gender Equality.
48. Kvinna till Kvinna, 2020: Programme Handbook.
49. ibid.


                                                                                   25
             THE KVINNA TILL KVINNA FOUNDATION STRATEGY 2023–2029




                                                                    Photo: Liliana Garmvild




FOR ALL WOMEN’S RIGHTS, IN EVERY CORNER OF THE WORLD
